1. Respir Res. 2024 Nov 29;25(1):421. doi: 10.1186/s12931-024-03050-3.

Toll-like receptor activation induces airway obstruction and hyperresponsiveness 
in guinea pigs.

Xiang Y(1), Liu J(1), Nie M(1), Nilsson G(2)(3), Säfholm J(4)(5), Adner M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Asthma and Allergy Research Unit, Institute of Environmental 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Division of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Medicine Solna, Karolinska 
Institutet, Center for Molecular Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Unit of Integrative Metabolomics, Institute of Environmental Medicine, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergy, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Experimental Asthma and Allergy Research Unit, Institute of Environmental 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. mikael.adner@ki.se.
(7)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Nobels väg 13, 
Stockholm, SE-171 77, Sweden. mikael.adner@ki.se.

BACKGROUND: Microbial infections, particularly those caused by rhinovirus (RV) 
and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), are major triggers for asthma 
exacerbations. These viruses activate toll-like receptors (TLRs), initiating an 
innate immune response. To better understand microbial-induced asthma 
exacerbations, animal models that closely mimic human lung characteristics are 
essential. This study aimed to assess airway responses in guinea pigs exposed to 
TLR agonists, simulating microbial infections.
METHODS: The agonists poly(I: C) (TLR3), lipopolysaccharide (LPS; TLR4) and 
imiquimod (TLR7), or the combination of poly(I: C) and imiquimod (P/I) were 
administered intranasally once a day over four consecutive days. The latter 
group received daily intraperitoneal injections of dexamethasone starting one 
day before the TLR agonists challenge. Respiratory functions were measured by 
whole-body plethysmography and forced oscillatory technique. Bronchoalveolar 
lavage fluid (BALF) cells and lungs were collected for analysis.
RESULTS: The intranasal exposure of LPS and P/I caused an increase in enhanced 
pause (Penh) after challenge, whereas neither poly(I: C) nor imiquimod alone 
showed any effect. After the challenges of LPS, poly(I: C) or P/I, but not 
imiquimod alone, induced an increase of both Rrs (resistance of the respiratory 
system) and Ers (elastance of the respiratory system). LPS exposure caused an 
increase of neutrophils in BALF, whereas none of the other exposures affected 
the composition of cells in BALF. Exposure to LPS, poly (I: C), imiquimod, and 
P/I all caused a marked infiltration of inflammatory cells and an increase of 
mast cells around the small airways. For the expression of inflammatory 
mediators, LPS increased CXCL8, poly(I: C) and imiquimod decreased IL-4 and 
IL-5, and increased IFNγ. Imiquimod increased CXCL8 and IL-6, whereas P/I 
decreased IL-5, and increased IL-6 and IFNγ. The increases in Rrs, Ers, and 
airway inflammation, but not the altered expression of inflammatory cytokines, 
were attenuated by dexamethasone.
CONCLUSIONS: TLR agonists promote acute airway inflammation and induce airway 
obstruction and hyperresponsiveness in guinea pigs. The severity of these 
effects varies depending on the specific agonists used. Notably, dexamethasone 
reversed pulmonary functional changes and mitigated bronchial inflammation 
caused by the combined treatment of P/I. However, it had no impact on the 
expression of inflammatory mediators.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-024-03050-3
PMCID: PMC11607803
PMID: 39614276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: This study was 
approved by the Stockholm Animal Research Ethics Committee (Permit number: 
10973 − 2019 and 21900 − 2022). Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Microbiol Spectr. 2024 Nov 29:e0198324. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.01983-24. Online
 ahead of print.

Multiomics comparative analysis of feces AMRGs of Duroc pigs and Tibetan and the 
effect of fecal microbiota transplantation on AMRGs upon antibiotic exposure.

Wang T(1)(2), Luo Y(1)(2), Kong X(3), Fang L(4), Zhu L(4), Yu B(1)(2), Zheng 
P(1)(2), Huang Z(1)(2), Mao X(1)(2), Jie Y(1)(2), Luo J(1)(2), Yan H(1)(2), He 
J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Animal Nutrition Institute, Sichuan Agricultural University, Chengdu, 
Sichuan, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Animal Disease-resistant Nutrition, Chengdu, Sichuan, 
China.
(3)Institute of Subtropical Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changsha, 
Hunan, China.
(4)Zhucheng Haotian Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd, Zhucheng, Shandong, China.

Fecal matter is recognized as both a reservoir and a transmission source for 
various antimicrobial resistance genes (AMRGs). However, the transcriptional 
activity of AMRGs in swine feces is not well understood. In addition, the effect 
of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) on the excretion of AMRGs has rarely 
been reported. Our study explored the diversity, abundance, transcriptional 
activity, and bacterial hosts of AMRGs in Tibetan and Duroc pig feces using 
metagenomic and metatranscriptomic sequencing technologies. We discovered a 
significantly higher genomic abundance of AMRGs in the feces of Duroc pigs 
compared to Tibetan pigs (P < 0.001), although the transcript levels did not 
show a significant difference. The results showed that the core composition of 
AMRGs in pig feces varied considerably, with the most transcriptionally active 
AMRGs being oqxB, tetQ, Bla1, dfrA1, and amrB. Furthermore, the Firmicutes 
phylum is the main host of AMRGs. By transplanting fecal flora from Tibetan and 
Duroc pigs into the intestines of Duroc Landrace Yorkshire (DLY) piglets after 
acute antibiotic exposure, we found that only Tibetan pig fecal flora 
significantly reduced AMRGs in the feces of DLY piglets (P < 0.05). The 
effectiveness of Tibetan pig fecal microorganisms in removing AMRGs from DLY pig 
feces was mainly influenced by microbial communities, especially the 
Bacteroidota phylum. These findings offer valuable insights for the prevention 
and control of AMRG pollution.
IMPORTANCE: To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first 
comprehensive analysis of antimicrobial resistance gene (AMRGs) expression in 
the fecal microbiota of Tibetan and Duroc pigs, employing an integrated 
metagenomic and metatranscriptomic approach. Our findings indicate a higher risk 
of AMRGs transmission in the feces of Duroc pigs compared to Tibetan pigs. Given 
the escalating antimicrobial resistance crisis, novel therapeutic interventions 
are imperative to mitigate gut colonization by pathogens and AMRGs. In this 
regard, we investigated the impact of fecal microbiota from Tibetan and Duroc 
pig sources on AMRGs excretion in Duroc Landrace Yorkshire (DLY) piglets' feces 
following acute antibiotic exposure. Remarkably, only fecal microbiota sourced 
from Tibetan pigs exhibited a reduction in AMRGs excretion in DLY piglets' 
feces. This underscores the significance of evaluating the presence of AMRGs 
within donor fecal microbiota for effective AMRGs decolonization strategies.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.01983-24
PMID: 39612216

1. Microbiol Spectr. 2024 Nov 27:e0090424. doi: 10.1128/spectrum.00904-24. Online
 ahead of print.

Spatiotemporal and genomic analysis of carbapenem resistance elements in 
Enterobacterales from hospital inpatients and natural water ecosystems of an 
Irish city.

Maguire M(1)(2)(3), Serna C(4), Montero Serra N(4), Kovarova A(1)(2), O'Connor 
L(1)(2), Cahill N(1)(2), Hooban B(1)(2), DeLappe N(5), Brennan W(5), Devane 
G(5), Cormican M(5), Morris D(1)(2), Coughlan SC(3), Miliotis G(1)(2), 
Gonzalez-Zorn B(4), Burke LP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Antimicrobial Resistance and Microbial Ecology Group, School of Medicine, 
University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(2)Center for One Health, Ryan Institute, University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(3)SFI Center for Research Training in Genomics Data Science, Dublin, Ireland.
(4)Antimicrobial Resistance Unit, Animal Health Department, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(5)National Carbapenemase Producing Enterobacterales Reference Laboratory 
Service, University Hospital Galway, Galway, Ireland.

Carbapenemase-producing Enterobacterales (CPE) is a diverse group of often 
multidrug-resistant organisms. Surveillance and control of infections are 
complicated due to the inter-species spread of carbapenemase-encoding genes 
(CEGs) on mobile genetic elements (MGEs), including plasmids and transposons. 
Due to wastewater discharges, urban water ecosystems represent a known reservoir 
of CPE. However, the dynamics of carbapenemase-bearing MGE dissemination between 
Enterobacterales in humans and environmental waters are poorly understood. We 
carried out whole-genome sequencing, combining short- and long-sequencing reads 
to enable complete characterization of CPE isolated from patients, wastewaters, 
and natural waters between 2018 and 2020 in Galway, Ireland. Isolates were 
selected based on their carriage of Class A blaKPC-2 (n = 6), Class B blaNDM-5 
(n = 12), and Class D blaOXA-48 (n = 21) CEGs. CEGs were plasmid-borne in all 
but two isolates. OXA-48 dissemination was associated with a 64 kb IncL plasmid 
(62%), in a broad range of Enterobacterales isolates from both niches. 
Conversely, blaKPC-2 and blaNDM-5 genes were usually carried on larger and more 
variable multireplicon IncF plasmids in Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia 
coli, respectively. In every isolate, each CEG was surrounded by a gene-specific 
common genetic environment which constituted part, or all, of a transposable 
element that was present in both plasmids and the bacterial chromosome. 
Transposons Tn1999 and Tn4401 were associated with blaOXA-48 and blaKPC-2, 
respectively, while blaNDM-5 was associated with variable IS26 bound composite 
transposons, usually containing a class 1 integron.IMPORTANCESince 2018, the 
Irish National Carbapenemase-Producing Enterobacterales (CPE) Reference 
Laboratory Service at University Hospital Galway has performed whole-genome 
sequencing on suspected and confirmed CPE from clinical specimens as well as 
patient and environmental screening isolates. Understanding the dynamics of CPE 
and carbapenemase-encoding gene encoding mobile genetic element (MGE) flux 
between human and environmental reservoirs is important for One Health 
surveillance of these priority organisms. We employed hybrid assembly approaches 
for improved resolution of CPE genomic surveillance, typing, and plasmid 
characterization. We analyzed a diverse collection of human (n = 17) and 
environmental isolates (n = 22) and found common MGE across multiple species and 
in different ecological niches. The conjugation ability and frequency of a 
subset of these plasmids were demonstrated to be affected by the presence or 
absence of necessary conjugation genes and by plasmid size. We characterize 
several MGE at play in the local dissemination of carbapenemase genes. This may 
facilitate their future detection in the clinical laboratory.

DOI: 10.1128/spectrum.00904-24
PMID: 39601575

1. Front Immunol. 2024 Nov 12;15:1450927. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1450927. 
eCollection 2024.

From microbes to medicine: harnessing the power of the microbiome in esophageal 
cancer.

Liu X(1), Li B(#)(2), Liang L(#)(3), Han J(4), Mai S(5), Liu L(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou 
Medical University, Guangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Guangzhou Key Laboratory of 
Digestive Diseases, Guangzhou Digestive Disease Center, Guangzhou First People's 
Hospital, School of Medicine, South China University of Technology, Guangzhou, 
China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(6)Integrated Clinical Microecology Center, Shenzhen Hospital, Southern Medical 
University, Shenzhen, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Esophageal cancer (EC) is a malignancy with a high incidence and poor prognosis, 
significantly influenced by dysbiosis in the esophageal, oral, and gut 
microbiota. This review provides an overview of the roles of microbiota 
dysbiosis in EC pathogenesis, emphasizing their impact on tumor progression, 
drug efficacy, biomarker discovery, and therapeutic interventions. Lifestyle 
factors like smoking, alcohol consumption, and betel nut use are major 
contributors to dysbiosis and EC development. Recent studies utilizing advanced 
sequencing have revealed complex interactions between microbiota dysbiosis and 
EC, with oral pathogens such as Porphyromonas gingivalis and Fusobacterium 
nucleatum promoting inflammation and suppressing immune responses, thereby 
driving carcinogenesis. Altered esophageal microbiota, characterized by reduced 
beneficial bacteria and increased pathogenic species, further exacerbate local 
inflammation and tumor growth. Gut microbiota dysbiosis also affects systemic 
immunity, influencing chemotherapy and immunotherapy efficacy, with certain 
bacteria enhancing or inhibiting treatment responses. Microbiota composition 
shows potential as a non-invasive biomarker for early detection, prognosis, and 
personalized therapy. Novel therapeutic strategies targeting the microbiota-such 
as probiotics, dietary modifications, and fecal microbiota transplantation-offer 
promising avenues to restore balance and improve treatment efficacy, potentially 
enhancing patient outcomes. Integrating microbiome-focused strategies into 
current therapeutic frameworks could improve EC management, reduce adverse 
effects, and enhance patient survival. These findings highlight the need for 
further research into microbiota-tumor interactions and microbial interventions 
to transform EC treatment and prevention, particularly in cases of late-stage 
diagnosis and poor treatment response.

Copyright © 2024 Liu, Li, Liang, Han, Mai and Liu.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1450927
PMCID: PMC11588724
PMID: 39600698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2024 Oct 28;13(11):1013. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics13111013.

Microbiome and Resistome Studies of the Lithuanian Baltic Sea Coast and the 
Curonian Lagoon Waters and Sediments.

Gyraitė G(1), Kataržytė M(2), Espinosa RP(2), Kalvaitienė G(2), Lastauskienė 
E(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioscience Institute, Life Science Center, Vilnius University, 10257 Vilnius, 
Lithuania.
(2)Marine Research Institute, Klaipeda University, 92295 Klaipėda, Lithuania.

BACKGROUND: the widespread use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine 
has contributed to the global challenge of antimicrobial resistance, posing 
significant environmental and public health risks.
OBJECTIVES: this study aimed to examine the microbiome and resistome dynamics 
across a salinity gradient, analyzing water and sediment samples from the Baltic 
Sea coast and the Curonian Lagoon between 2017 and 2023.
METHODS: the composition of the water and sediment bacterial community was 
determined by Full-Length Amplicon Metagenomics Sequencing, while ARG detection 
and quantification were performed using the SmartChipTM Real-Time PCR system.
RESULTS: the observed differences in bacterial community composition between the 
Baltic Sea coast and the Curonian Lagoon were driven by variations in salinity 
and chlorophyll a (chl a) concentration. The genera associated with infectious 
potential were observed in higher abundances in sediment than in water samples. 
Over 300 genes encoding antibiotic resistance (ARGs), such as aminoglycosides, 
beta-lactams, and multidrug resistance genes, were identified. Of particular 
interest were those ARGs that have previously been detected in pathogens and 
those currently classified as a potential future threat. Furthermore, our 
findings reveal a higher abundance and a distinct profile of ARGs in sediment 
samples from the lagoon compared to water.
CONCLUSIONS: these results suggest that transitional waters such as lagoons may 
serve as reservoirs for ARGs, and might be influenced by anthropogenic pressures 
and natural processes such as salinity fluctuation and nutrient cycling.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics13111013
PMCID: PMC11591088
PMID: 39596708

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Brain Sci. 2024 Oct 23;14(11):1051. doi: 10.3390/brainsci14111051.

Exploring the Frontier: The Human Microbiome's Role in Rare Childhood 
Neurological Diseases and Epilepsy.

Belnap N(1), Ramsey K(1), Carvalho ST(2), Nearman L(3)(4), Haas H(1)(5), 
Huentelman M(1), Lee K(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Rare Childhood Disorders, Translational Genomics Research 
Institute (TGen), Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA.
(2)Translational Genomics Research Institute, Flagstaff, AZ 86001, USA.
(3)Department of Biological Science, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, AZ 
86011, USA.
(4)TGen Integrated Microbiomics Center, Translational Genomics Research 
Institute (TGen), Flagstaff, AZ 86011, USA.
(5)Barrett, the Honors College, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85281, USA.

Emerging research into the human microbiome, an intricate ecosystem of 
microorganisms residing in and on our bodies, reveals that it plays a pivotal 
role in maintaining our health, highlighting the potential for microbiome-based 
interventions to prevent, diagnose, treat, and manage a myriad of diseases. The 
objective of this review is to highlight the importance of microbiome studies in 
enhancing our understanding of rare genetic epilepsy and related neurological 
disorders. Studies suggest that the gut microbiome, acting through the gut-brain 
axis, impacts the development and severity of epileptic conditions in children. 
Disruptions in microbial composition can affect neurotransmitter systems, 
inflammatory responses, and immune regulation, which are all critical factors in 
the pathogenesis of epilepsy. This growing body of evidence points to the 
potential of microbiome-targeted therapies, such as probiotics or dietary 
modifications, as innovative approaches to managing epilepsy. By harnessing the 
power of the microbiome, we stand to develop more effective and personalized 
treatment strategies for children affected by this disease and other rare 
neurological diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/brainsci14111051
PMCID: PMC11592123
PMID: 39595814

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Curr Microbiol. 2024 Nov 26;82(1):14. doi: 10.1007/s00284-024-03981-6.

The potency of Cupressus sempervirens and Eucalyptus globulus Essential Oils 
Against Antibiotic-Resistant Escherichia coli and Mammaliicoccus sciuri from 
Diseased Animals in Tunisia.

Dhaouadi S(1), Ghorbel SKB(1), Bouglita W(1)(2), Chaari S(3), Dhifi W(1), Khrouf 
R(2), Cherif A(1), Elandoulsi RB(4).

Author information:
(1)ISBST, BVBGR-LR11ES31, Biotechpole Sidi Thabet, University of Manouba, 2020, 
Ariana, Tunisia.
(2)Institut Supérieur de Biotechnologie de Sidi Thabet, University of Manouba, 
Biotechpole Sidi Thabet, 2020, Ariana, Tunisia.
(3)MEDIVET, Immeuble Les Mimosas, 159 Avenue de L'UMA, 2036, La Soukra, Tunisia.
(4)ISBST, BVBGR-LR11ES31, Biotechpole Sidi Thabet, University of Manouba, 2020, 
Ariana, Tunisia. ramzi.b.landolsi@gmail.com.

This study aimed to investigate the antibacterial activity of essential oils 
from Cupressus sempervirens (CSEO) and Eucalyptus globulus (EGEO) against 
clinical isolates of colistin-resistant E. coli and methicillin-resistant M. 
sciuri recovered from diseased food-producing animals in Tunisia. The chemical 
compositions of both essential oils were analyzed using Gas chromatography-mass 
spectrometry (GC-MS). Antibacterial activity was determined through disk 
diffusion and microdilution assays, while the fractional inhibitory 
concentration index (FICI) was used to measure the synergistic effect of CSEO 
and colistin. The major constituents of CSEO were α-pinene (59.03%), δ-3 Carene 
(21.48%), D-limonene (5.62%) and α-thujene (3.08%), while EGEO contained 
eucalyptol (52.1%), α-pinene (26.51%), γ-terpinene (4.81%) and D-limonene 
(3.54%). The inhibition zone diameters (IZDs) against E. coli and M. sciuri 
ranged from 6 to 29 mm for CSEO and 9.3 to 28.6 mm for EGEO. Minimum inhibitory 
concentrations (MICs) showed a range of 4 to 512 µg/mL for CSEO against M. 
sciuri and 2 to 426.66 µg/mL for EGEO. For E. coli, MICs ranged from 170.66 to 
512 µg/mL for CSEO and 53.33 to 512 µg/mL for EGEO. The checkerboard test 
demonstrated a synergistic effect between CSEO and colistin against two 
colistin-resistant E. coli isolates, with FICI 3- to 32-fold lower than the MICs 
of the individual compounds. This study highlights the potency of essential oils 
from CSEO and EGEO against antibiotic-resistant M. sciuri and E. coli strains 
from animals in Tunisia and provides evidence of the synergistic effect between 
CSEO and colistin against clinically relevant colistin-resistant E. coli 
isolates.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-024-03981-6
PMID: 39592457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: The authors 
have not disclosed any competing interests. Ethical Approval: This study was 
subjected to ethical review and given approval by the ethics committee in animal 
experimentation (CEEA- ENMV) at the National School of Veterinary Medicine of 
Sidi Thabet, Ariana, Tunisia, ref: 07. 2024/ISBST. Consent to Participate: Not 
applicable. Consent for Publication: Not applicable.

1. PLoS One. 2024 Nov 26;19(11):e0314492. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0314492. 
eCollection 2024.

The pesticides carbofuran and picloram alter the diversity and abundance of soil 
microbial communities.

Alves Senabio J(1), Correia da Silva R(2), Guariz Pinheiro D(3), Gomes de 
Vasconcelos L(4), Soares MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany and Ecology, Institute of Biosciences, Federal 
University of Mato Grosso, Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(2)Center for Molecular Biology and Genetic Engineering, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(3)Faculty of Agricultural and Veterinary Sciences, Paulista State University, 
Jaboticabal, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Federal University of Mato Grosso, Cuiabá, Mato 
Grosso, Brazil.

Many countries widely use pesticides to increase crop productivity in 
agriculture. However, their excessive and indiscriminate use contaminates soil 
and other environments and affects edaphic microbial communities. We aimed to 
examine how the pesticides carbofuran and picloram affect the structure and 
functionality of soil microbiota using cultivation-independent methods. Total 
DNA was extracted from microcosms (treated or not with pesticides) for 
amplification and metabarcoding sequencing for bacteria (16S gene) and fungi 
(28S gene) using Illumina-MiSeq platform. Data analysis resulted in 6,772,547 
valid reads from the sequencing, including 3,450,815 amplicon sequences from the 
V3-V4 regions of the 16S gene and 3,321,732 sequences from the 28S gene. A total 
of 118 archaea, 6,931 bacteria, and 1,673 fungi taxonomic operating units were 
annotated with 97% identity in 24 soil samples. The most abundant phyla were 
Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, Firmicutes, Chloroflexi, 
Euryarchaeaota, and Ascomycota. The pesticides reduced the diversity and 
richness and altered the composition of soil microbial communities and the 
ecological interactions among them. Picloram exerted the strongest influence. 
Metabarcoding data analysis from soil microorganisms identified metabolic 
functions involved in resistance and degradation of contaminants, such as 
glutathione S-transferase. The results provided evidence that carbofuran and 
picloram shaped the soil microbial community. Future investigations are required 
to unravel the mechanisms by which soil microorganisms degrade pesticides.

Copyright: © 2024 Alves Senabio et al. This is an open access article 
distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which 
permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided 
the original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0314492
PMCID: PMC11594414
PMID: 39591478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.

1. mSystems. 2024 Nov 25:e0125024. doi: 10.1128/msystems.01250-24. Online ahead
of  print.

Florfenicol administration in piglets co-selects for multiple antimicrobial 
resistance genes.

Holman DB(1), Gzyl KE(1), Kommadath A(1).

Author information:
(1)Lacombe Research and Development Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, 
Lacombe, Alberta, Canada.

Antimicrobial use in food-producing animals such as pigs is a significant issue 
due to its association with antimicrobial resistance. Florfenicol is a 
broad-spectrum phenicol antibiotic used in swine for various indications; 
however, its effect on the swine microbiome and resistome is largely unknown. 
This study investigated these effects in piglets treated intramuscularly with 
florfenicol at 1 and 7 days of age. Fecal samples were collected from treated (n 
= 30) and untreated (n = 30) pigs at nine different time points up until 140 
days of age, and the fecal metagenomes were sequenced. The fecal microbiomes of 
the two groups of piglets were most dissimilar in the immediate period following 
florfenicol administration. These differences were driven in part by an increase 
in the relative abundance of Clostridium scindens, Enterococcus faecalis, and 
Escherichia spp. in the florfenicol-treated piglets and Fusobacterium spp., 
Pauljensenia hyovaginalis, and Ruminococcus gnavus in the control piglets. In 
addition to selecting for florfenicol resistance genes (floR, fexA, and fexB), 
florfenicol also selected for genes conferring resistance to the 
aminoglycosides, beta-lactams, or sulfonamides up until weaning at 21 days of 
age. Florfenicol-resistant Escherichia coli isolated from these piglets were 
found to carry a plasmid with floR, along with tet(A), aph(6)-Id, aph(3″)-Ib, 
sul2, and blaTEM-1/blaCMY-2. A plasmid carrying fexB and poxtA (phenicols and 
oxazolidinones) was identified in florfenicol-resistant Enterococcus avium, 
Enterococcus faecium, and E. faecalis isolates from the treated piglets. This 
study highlights the potential for co-selection and perturbation of the fecal 
microbial community in pre-weaned piglets administered 
florfenicol.IMPORTANCEAntimicrobial use remains a serious challenge in 
food-animal production due to its linkage with antimicrobial resistance. 
Antimicrobial resistance can reduce the efficacy of veterinary treatment and can 
potentially be transferred to humans through the food chain or direct contact 
with animals and their environment. In this study, early-life florfenicol 
treatment in piglets altered the composition of the fecal microbiome and 
selected for many unrelated antimicrobial resistance genes up until weaning at 
21 days of age. Part of this co-selection process appeared to involve an 
Escherichia coli plasmid carrying a florfenicol resistance gene along with genes 
conferring resistance to at least four other antimicrobial classes. In addition, 
florfenicol selected for certain genes that provide resistance to multiple 
antimicrobial classes, including the oxazolidinones. These results highlight 
that florfenicol can co-select for multiple antimicrobial resistance genes, and 
their presence on mobile genetic elements suggests the potential for transfer to 
other bacteria.

DOI: 10.1128/msystems.01250-24
PMID: 39584815

1. Heliyon. 2024 Nov 7;10(22):e40211. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e40211. 
eCollection 2024 Nov 30.

Screening and identification of phytochemicals from Acorus calamus L. to 
overcome NDM-1 mediated resistance in Klebsiella pneumoniae using in silico 
approach.

Rojmala JV(1), Thakkar AB(2), Joshi D(1), Waghela BN(1), Thakor P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Atmiya University, Kalawad Road, Rajkot, Gujarat, 
India.
(2)Post Graduate Department of Biosciences, Satellite Campus, Sardar Patel 
University, Vallabhvidyanagar, Gujarat, India.
(3)Bapubhai Desaibhai Patel Institute of Paramedical Sciences, Charotar 
University of Science and Technology, Changa, Gujarat, India.

Klebsiella pneumoniae is a potent human pathogen and a prevalent ESKAPE 
(Enterococcus faecium, Staphylococcus aureus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, 
Acinetobacter baumannii, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter species). 
Considerably, K. pneumoniae becomes a major clinical problem due to numerous AMR 
genes [extended-spectrum β-lactamase, plasmid-mediated AmpC, carbapenemases, 
tigecycline resistance, and New Delhi Metallo-β-lactamase-1 (NDM-1)] and can 
hydrolyze the majority of β-lactam antibiotics. Hence, targeting NDM-1 could be 
an effective approach to eradicate K. pneumoniae pathogenesis. A plethora of 
reports suggests that the plant compounds possess an anti-microbial activity and 
their utilization could be a promising strategy to develop novel antibiotics. 
Our study utilized the hydromethanolic leaves extract of Acorus calamus L. (AC) 
to target NDM-1 containing K. pneumonia using an in silico approach. At first, 
we determined the phytochemical composition of AC using GC-HRMS. Further, the 
phytoconstituents were screened against the NDM-1 (PDB ID: 3ZR9) of K. 
pneumoniae through molecular docking studies. Our results revealed the compounds 
from AC such as 
(2R,4S,6R,7S,8R,9S,13S)-16-hydroxy-5',7,9,13-tetramethylspiro[5-oxapentacyclo[10.8.0.02,9.04,8.013,18]icos-1(12)-ene-6,2'-oxane]-11-one 
(-9.5 kcal/mol), 4,4,5,8-tetramethyl-2,3-dihydrochromen-2-ol (-6.6 kcal/mol), 
5-chloro-2-(2,4-dichloro phenoxy)phenol (-6.0 kcal/mol), 
[(3S,3aS,6R,6aS)-3-nitrooxy-2,3,3a,5,6,6a-hexahydrofuro[3,2-b]furan-6-yl] 
nitrate (-5.7 kcal/mol), 4-(3-hydroxyprop-1-enyl)-2-methoxyphenol 
(-5.6 kcal/mol), and (E)-3-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)prop-2-enoic acid 
(-5.6 kcal/mol) possess substantial docking scores against NDM-1. Therefore, our 
study concludes that phytochemicals of AC may inhibit NDM-1-mediated resistance 
in K. pneumoniae and could be an alternative therapeutic strategy for targeting 
NDM-1-containing K. pneumoniae.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e40211
PMCID: PMC11585695
PMID: 39584079

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

1. Microbiome. 2024 Nov 22;12(1):245. doi: 10.1186/s40168-024-01965-z.

From grasslands to genes: exploring the major microbial drivers of 
antibiotic-resistance in microhabitats under persistent overgrazing.

Li J(1)(2), Ma Q(3)(4), Jin M(5), Huang L(5)(6), Hui D(7), Sardans J(8)(9), 
Peñuelas J(8)(9), O'Connor P(10), Zhu Y(11)(12), Yang X(5)(13), Wang L(4), Zhu 
YG(5)(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Ningbo Observation and 
Research Station, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Xiamen, 361021, China. jianli@iue.ac.cn.
(2)Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Urban Environmental Processes and Pollution 
Control, CAS Haixi Industrial Technology Innovation Center in Beilun, Ningbo, 
315830, China. jianli@iue.ac.cn.
(3)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Ecology and Resource Use of the 
Mongolian Plateau & Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Grassland Ecology, School 
of Ecology and Environment, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, 010021, China.
(4)Institute of Grassland Science, Key Laboratory of Vegetation Ecology, 
Ministry of Education/Jilin Songnen, Grassland Ecosystem National Observation 
and Research Station, Northeast Normal University, Changchun, 130024, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Ningbo Observation and 
Research Station, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Xiamen, 361021, China.
(6)School of Life Sciences, Institute of Life Sciences and Green Development, 
Hebei University, Baoding, 071002, China.
(7)Department of Biological Sciences, Tennessee State University, Nashville, TN, 
37209, USA.
(8)Global Ecology Unit, CSIC, CREAF-CSIC-UAB, Bellaterra, Barcelona, Catalonia, 
08193, Spain.
(9)CREAF, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Barcelona, Catalonia, 08193, Spain.
(10)Centre for Global Food and Resources, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, 
5005, Australia.
(11)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Ecology and Resource Use of the 
Mongolian Plateau & Inner Mongolia Key Laboratory of Grassland Ecology, School 
of Ecology and Environment, Inner Mongolia University, Hohhot, 010021, China. 
zhuyu@imu.edu.cn.
(12)State Key Laboratory of Black Soils Conservation and Utilization & Key 
Laboratory of Wetland Ecology and Environment, Northeast Institute of Geography 
and Agroecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, 130102, China. 
zhuyu@imu.edu.cn.
(13)Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Urban Environmental Processes and Pollution 
Control, CAS Haixi Industrial Technology Innovation Center in Beilun, Ningbo, 
315830, China.
(14)State Key Lab of Urban and Regional Ecology, Research Center for 
Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: The extensive use of antibiotics in the global livestock industry in 
recent decades has accelerated the accumulation and dissemination of 
antibiotic-resistance genes (ARGs) within terrestrial ecosystems. This occurs 
due to the limited absorption of most antibiotics, leading to their release into 
the environment through feces and urine. This poses a significant threat to both 
the environment and human health. However, the response of antibiotic-resistant 
microorganisms and their ARGs in grasslands to prolonged grazing, as well as the 
primary microbial taxa driving the ARG distribution, remain poorly understood, 
especially within various microhabitats. In this study, we characterized ARGs in 
the phyllosphere, litter, and soil after decades of livestock grazing in a 
meadow steppe. We particularly focused on identifying the major members of the 
microbial community influencing ARGs and the distinction between microbial 
generalists and specialists.
RESULTS: Our findings indicate that a core set of ARGs accounted for 90% of the 
abundance in this plant-soil ecosystem. While the soil exhibited the highest ARG 
abundance, the phyllosphere, and litter displayed higher ARG diversity and 
diverse distribution patterns after overgrazing. Grazing increased ARG abundance 
by elevating the proportion of core ARGs and suppressing stochastic ARGs in the 
phyllosphere and litter, while it had little effect on the ARGs in the soil. 
Additionally, microbial generalist abundance increased, but specialist abundance 
decreased in the phyllosphere and litter, with no effect in the soil, under 
grazed conditions. Ultimately, microbial microhabitats and grazing influenced 
ARG community characteristics through direct (i.e., feces and other exogenous 
ARG input) and indirect (i.e., trampling and selective feeding) effects on 
nutrient availability, microbial community composition, and mobile genetic 
elements. The generalist community, with its broad ecological niches and 
phylogenetic composition, made the most significant contribution to the ARG 
characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: This study underscores the impact of environmental disturbances on 
the distributional patterns of ARGs in ecosystems, mediated by the regulation of 
microbial generalized species. These insights enhance our understanding of 
microbial control over ARGs and facilitate predictions regarding the dynamics 
and risk of ARGs in diverse ecological niches subjected to anthropogenic 
disturbances. Video Abstract.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-024-01965-z
PMCID: PMC11583533
PMID: 39578932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Nat Microbiol. 2024 Dec;9(12):3165-3183. doi: 10.1038/s41564-024-01853-0. Epub
 2024 Nov 21.

The Parkinson's disease drug entacapone disrupts gut microbiome homoeostasis via 
iron sequestration.

Pereira FC(#)(1)(2), Ge X(#)(3), Kristensen JM(4), Kirkegaard RH(4)(5), Maritsch 
K(4), Szamosvári D(6), Imminger S(4), Seki D(4), Shazzad JB(7), Zhu Y(8), 
Decorte M(4), Hausmann B(6)(9), Berry D(4), Wasmund K(4)(10), Schintlmeister 
A(4), Böttcher T(4)(6), Cheng JX(11)(12), Wagner M(13)(14).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Microbiology and Environmental Systems Science, Department of 
Microbiology and Ecosystem Science, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
f.c.pereira@soton.ac.uk.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK. 
f.c.pereira@soton.ac.uk.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Boston University, Boston, 
MA, USA.
(4)Centre for Microbiology and Environmental Systems Science, Department of 
Microbiology and Ecosystem Science, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Joint Microbiome Facility of the Medical University of Vienna and the 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(6)Department of Biological Chemistry, Faculty of Chemistry, University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(7)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(8)Department of Chemistry, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.
(9)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.
(10)School of Biological Sciences, University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, UK.
(11)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Boston University, 
Boston, MA, USA. jxcheng@bu.edu.
(12)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Photonics Center, Boston University, 
Boston, MA, USA. jxcheng@bu.edu.
(13)Centre for Microbiology and Environmental Systems Science, Department of 
Microbiology and Ecosystem Science, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 
michael.wagner@univie.ac.at.
(14)Department of Chemistry and Bioscience, Aalborg University, Aalborg, 
Denmark. michael.wagner@univie.ac.at.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Nov 13:2023.11.12.566429. doi: 10.1101/2023.11.12.566429.

Many human-targeted drugs alter the gut microbiome, leading to implications for 
host health. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are not well 
known. Here we combined quantitative microbiome profiling, long-read 
metagenomics, stable isotope probing and single-cell chemical imaging to 
investigate the impact of two widely prescribed drugs on the gut microbiome. 
Physiologically relevant concentrations of entacapone, a treatment for 
Parkinson's disease, or loxapine succinate, used to treat schizophrenia, were 
incubated ex vivo with human faecal samples. Both drugs significantly impact 
microbial activity, more so than microbial abundance. Mechanistically, 
entacapone can complex and deplete available iron resulting in gut microbiome 
composition and function changes. Microbial growth can be rescued by 
replenishing levels of microbiota-accessible iron. Further, entacapone-induced 
iron starvation selected for iron-scavenging gut microbiome members encoding 
antimicrobial resistance and virulence genes. These findings reveal the impact 
of two under-investigated drugs on whole microbiomes and identify metal 
sequestration as a mechanism of drug-induced microbiome disturbance.

© 2024. Crown.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-024-01853-0
PMCID: PMC11602724
PMID: 39572788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.

1. Commun Biol. 2024 Nov 21;7(1):1552. doi: 10.1038/s42003-024-07266-3.

E. coli and S. aureus resist silver nanoparticles via an identical mechanism, 
but through different pathways.

Hochvaldová L(1), Panáček D(1)(2), Válková L(1)(3), Večeřová R(4), Kolář M(4), 
Prucek R(1), Kvítek L(1), Panáček A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Palacký University in 
Olomouc, 17. listopadu 12, 771 46, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(2)Regional Centre of Advanced Technologies and Materials, Czech Advanced 
Technology and Research Institute (CATRIN), Palacký University in Olomouc, 
Šlechtitelů 241/27, 783 71, Olomouc, Holice, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Medical Biophysics, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacký 
University in Olomouc, Hněvotínská 3, 775 15, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacký 
University in Olomouc, Hněvotínská 3, 775 15, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Physical Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Palacký University in 
Olomouc, 17. listopadu 12, 771 46, Olomouc, Czech Republic. 
ales.panacek@upol.cz.

Nanostructured materials with antibacterial activity face the same threat as 
conventional antibiotics - bacterial resistance, which reduces their 
effectiveness. However, unlike antibiotics, research into the emergence and 
mechanisms of bacterial resistance to antibacterial nanomaterials is still in 
its early stages. Here we show how Gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus and 
Gram-negative Escherichia coli bacteria develop resistance to silver 
nanoparticles, resulting in an increase in the minimum inhibitory concentration 
from 1.69 mg/L for S. aureus and 3.38 mg/L for E. coli to 54 mg/L with repeated 
exposure over 12 and 6 cultivation steps, respectively. The mechanism of 
resistance is the same for both types of bacteria and involves the aggregation 
of silver nanoparticles leading to the formation of black precipitates. However, 
the way in which Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria induce aggregation of 
silver nanoparticles is completely different. Chemical analysis of the surface 
of the silver precipitates shows that aggregation is triggered by flagellin 
production in E. coli and by bacterial biofilm formation in S. aureus. However, 
resistance in both types of bacteria can be overcome by using pomegranate rind 
extract, which inhibits both flagellin and biofilm production, or by stabilizing 
the silver nanoparticles by covalently binding them to a composite material 
containing graphene sheets, which protects the silver nanoparticles from 
aggregation induced by the bacterial biofilm produced by S. aureus. This 
research improves the understanding of bacterial resistance mechanisms to 
nanostructured materials, which differ from resistance mechanisms to 
conventional antibiotics, and provides potential strategies to combat bacterial 
resistance and develop more effective antimicrobial treatments.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s42003-024-07266-3
PMCID: PMC11582817
PMID: 39572718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors declare no 
competing interests.

1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2024 Dec;16(6):e70032. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.70032.

Metagenomic analysis reveals houseflies as indicators for monitoring 
environmental antibiotic resistance genes.

Yang Y(1), Xu P(1), He W(2), Tao F(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Fifth People's Hospital of Shanghai, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Given the threat to public health posed by antibiotic resistance transmission, 
environmental monitoring is essential for tracking antibiotic resistance genes 
(ARGs). Houseflies, being ubiquitous organisms capable of carrying and 
disseminating ARGs, serve as suitable indicators for environmental monitoring. 
In this study, we employ metagenomic approaches to investigate housefly body 
surface samples from five typical sites associated with human activities. The 
investigation reveals microbiome diversity among the samples, along with 
variations in the occurrence and mobility potential of ARGs. Metagenomic 
analysis indicates that the composition of ARGs on housefly body surfaces is 
influenced by environmental ARGs, which may be enriched on the housefly body 
surface. The resistance genes related to multidrug, β-lactam, bacitracin, and 
tetracycline were the predominant ARGs detected, with multidrug-related ARGs 
consistently exhibiting dominance. Furthermore, the abundance of ARGs in the 
different housefly body surface samples was found to correlate with the 
population density and mobility of the sampling site. Natural environments 
exhibited the lowest ARG abundance, while areas with higher population density 
and limited population mobility displayed higher ARG abundance. This study 
emphasizes the effectiveness of houseflies as monitors for environmental ARGs 
and underscores their potential for assessing and controlling antibiotic 
resistance risks in urban environments.

© 2024 The Author(s). Environmental Microbiology Reports published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.70032
PMCID: PMC11576324
PMID: 39562308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2024 Nov 1;14:1482186. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2024.1482186. eCollection 2024.

Artificial intelligence in predicting pathogenic microorganisms' antimicrobial 
resistance: challenges, progress, and prospects.

Li Y(1), Cui X(2), Yang X(3), Liu G(4), Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Jinan Fourth People's Hospital, Jinan, China.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Jinan Huaiyin People's Hospital, Jinan, China.
(3)Pharmacy Department, Pingyin County Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, 
Jinan, China.
(4)Pharmacy Department, Jinan Licheng District Liubu Town Health Centre, Jinan, 
China.

The issue of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in pathogenic microorganisms has 
emerged as a global public health crisis, posing a significant threat to the 
modern healthcare system. The advent of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine 
Learning (ML) technologies has brought about revolutionary changes in this 
field. These advanced computational methods are capable of processing and 
analyzing large-scale biomedical data, thereby uncovering complex patterns and 
mechanisms behind the development of resistance. AI technologies are 
increasingly applied to predict the resistance of pathogens to various 
antibiotics based on gene content and genomic composition. This article reviews 
the latest advancements in AI and ML for predicting antimicrobial resistance in 
pathogenic microorganisms. We begin with an overview of the biological 
foundations of microbial resistance and its epidemiological research. 
Subsequently, we highlight the main AI and ML models used in resistance 
prediction, including but not limited to Support Vector Machines, Random 
Forests, and Deep Learning networks. Furthermore, we explore the major 
challenges in the field, such as data availability, model interpretability, and 
cross-species resistance prediction. Finally, we discuss new perspectives and 
solutions for research into microbial resistance through algorithm optimization, 
dataset expansion, and interdisciplinary collaboration. With the continuous 
advancement of AI technology, we will have the most powerful weapon in the fight 
against pathogenic microbial resistance in the future.

Copyright © 2024 Li, Cui, Yang, Liu and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2024.1482186
PMCID: PMC11564165
PMID: 39554812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Am J Infect Control. 2024 Nov 15:S0196-6553(24)00846-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajic.2024.11.006. Online ahead of print.

No detrimental effect on the hand microbiome of health care staff by frequent 
alcohol-based antisepsis.

Kramer A(1), Dahl MB(2), Bengtsson MM(2), Boyce JM(3), Heckmann M(4), Meister 
M(2), Papke R(1), Pittet D(5), Reinhard A(2), Slevogt H(6), Wang H(2), Zwicker 
P(1), Urich T(2), Seifert U(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany; Section Antiseptic Stewardship of the German 
Society of Hospital Hygiene e. V., Berlin, Germany.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, Bacterial Physiology, University of Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(3)J.M. Boyce Consulting, LLC, Hyde Park, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neonatology and Pediatric Intensive Care, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany; DZKJ (German Centre for Child and Adolescent 
Health), partner site Greifswald/Rostock, Greifswald, Germany.
(5)Infection Control Programme and WHO Collaborating Centre on Infection 
Prevention and Control & Antimicrobial Resistance, University of Geneva, Faculty 
of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Hannover Medical 
School, German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Breath, Hannover, Germany; 
Respiratory Infection Dynamics Group, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(7)Section Antiseptic Stewardship of the German Society of Hospital Hygiene e. 
V., Berlin, Germany; Friedrich Loeffler-Institute of Medical 
Microbiology-Virology, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. 
Electronic address: ulrike.seifert@med.uni-greifswald.de.

BACKGROUND: The importance of ethanol-based hand rubs (EBHR) to prevent health 
care-associated infections is undisputed. However, there is a lack of meaningful 
data regarding the influence of EBHRs on skin microbiome.
METHODS: Four nurses in a neonatal intensive care unit were included. After a 
leave of 14 days, samples were taken before the first hand rubbing action and at 
the end of shift, with continued sampling on days 1, 7 and 28. To analyze the 
hand microbiome, microbial cells were collected using the glove-juice technique. 
Pro- and eukaryotic community profiles were created using amplicon sequencing of 
16S and 18S rRNA gene markers.
RESULTS: On average, hand antisepsis was performed 108 times per 8-hour work 
shift. Microbial communities were dominated by typical taxa found on human skin. 
In addition, a clear nurse-specific (i.e. individual) microbiome signature could 
be observed. For Prokaryota, daily exposure led to the end-of-the-day 
microbiomes being more similar to each other across nurses. In contrast, 
longitudinal effect of 28 day-application revealed more similarity of the 
Eukaryotic community.
CONCLUSIONS: Frequent occupational use of EBHR did not adversely affect the 
composition of the human hand microbiome. Thus, daily hand antisepsis retains 
its significance as the most important procedure for infection control.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2024.11.006
PMID: 39551096

1. Mycoses. 2024 Nov;67(11):e70000. doi: 10.1111/myc.70000.

Multicentre Study of Candida parapsilosis Blood Isolates in Türkiye Highlights 
an Increasing Rate of Fluconazole Resistance and Emergence of Echinocandin and 
Multidrug Resistance.

Ünal N(1)(2), Spruijtenburg B(3)(4)(5), Arastehfar A(6)(7), Gümral R(8), de 
Groot T(4)(5), Meijer EFJ(3)(4)(5), Türk-Dağı H(9), Birinci A(10), 
Hilmioğlu-Polat S(11), Meis JF(3)(4)(12), Lass-Flörl C(13), Ilkit M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Mycology, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Çukurova University, Adana, Turkey.
(2)Adana City Training and Research Hospital, Laboratory of Medical 
Microbiology, University of Health Sciences, Adana, Turkey.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology, Radboudumc, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Radboudumc-CWZ Center of Expertise for Mycology, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Canisius-Wilhelmina 
Hospital (CWZ)/Dicoon, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(8)Division of Mycology, Department of Microbiology, Gulhane Training and 
Research Hospital, University of Health Sciences, Ankara, Turkey.
(9)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Selcuk University, Konya, 
Turkey.
(10)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ondokuz Mayıs University, 
Samsun, Turkey.
(11)Department of Microbiology, Ege University Faculty of Medicine, Izmir, 
Turkey.
(12)Institute of Translational Research, Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular 
Stress Response in Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), Excellence Center for 
Medical Mycology (ECMM), University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(13)Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.

OBJECTIVES: Worldwide emergence of clonal outbreaks caused by 
fluconazole-resistant (FLCR) and the recent emergence of echinocandin- and 
multidrug-resistant (ECR and MDR) Candida parapsilosis isolates pose serious 
threats to modern clinics. Conducting large-scale epidemiological studies aimed 
at determining the genetic composition and antifungal resistance rates is 
necessary to devise antifungal stewardship and infection control strategies at 
international, national and local levels. Despite being severely hit by 
outbreaks due to FLCR C. parapsilosis isolates, such knowledge at the national 
level is lacking in Türkiye. Herein, we conducted a prospective multicentre 
study involving five major clinical centres in Türkiye to determine antifungal 
resistance rates, underlying mechanisms and genetic composition of all isolates.
METHODS: In total, 341 isolates were collected from 265 patients including 
clinical information. Antifungal susceptibility testing against common 
antifungals was performed in addition to sequencing of ERG11 and FKS1. Last, 
isolates were genotyped with short tandem repeat (STR) genotyping to investigate 
potential nosocomial transmission.
RESULTS: The FLCR rate was 26.7% (91/341), out of which 75.8% (69/91) harboured 
the ERG11Y132F mutation. Patients infected with FLCR isolates had a higher 
mortality rate compared to their susceptible counterparts (49% for FLCR vs. 42% 
for susceptible). ECR rate was 2.1% (7/341) and isolates carried 
FKS1F652L/R658G/W1370R mutations. Concerningly, four ECR isolates were MDR. FLCR 
isolates grouped in distinct clusters without evidence of inter-hospital 
transmission, whereas large clusters containing susceptible isolates from all 
centres were noted.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the increasing prevalence of FLCR C. parapsilosis at 
national level and the emergence of ECR and MDR isolates pose serious clinical 
challenges in Türkiye. Therefore, conducting large-scale epidemiological studies 
are critical to determine the trend of antifungal resistance and to tailor 
pertinent antifungal stewardship and infection control strategies to effectively 
curb the spread of drug-resistant C. parapsilosis.

© 2024 The Author(s). Mycoses published by Wiley‐VCH GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/myc.70000
PMID: 39547949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Nov 14;283(Pt 2):137627. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.137627. Online ahead of print.

Review on need for designing sustainable and biodegradable face masks: 
Opportunities for nanofibrous cellulosic filters.

Adepu S(1), Siju CR(1), Kaki S(1), Bagannagari S(1), Khandelwal M(2), Bharti 
VK(3).

Author information:
(1)Cellulose & Composites Laboratory, Department of Materials Science and 
Metallurgical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, 
Kandi-502285, Sangareddy, Telangana, India.
(2)Cellulose & Composites Laboratory, Department of Materials Science and 
Metallurgical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, 
Kandi-502285, Sangareddy, Telangana, India. Electronic address: 
mudrika@msme.iith.ac.in.
(3)Cellulose & Composites Laboratory, Department of Materials Science and 
Metallurgical Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, 
Kandi-502285, Sangareddy, Telangana, India. Electronic address: 
vikram2k23@alumni.iith.ac.in.

The surge in microbial illnesses, notably seen during the COVID-19 pandemic, has 
led to the global use of face masks-cloth, surgical, medical, and respirator 
types-to curb respiratory pathogen spread. Widely used by the public, patients, 
and healthcare workers, masks play a key role in reducing airborne transmission. 
However, synthetic, non-biodegradable materials in these masks have sparked 
environmental concerns due to disposal issues. Moreover, challenges like limited 
microbial filtration, poor fit, breathing resistance, and low reusability raise 
further issues, as does the failure to neutralize trapped microbes. Addressing 
these issues calls for high-performance, biodegradable masks crafted from 
renewable nanofibrous materials using advanced technology. Antimicrobial 
nanomaterial coatings can further reduce contamination risks for users and the 
environment. Nanofibrous materials, with their high surface area, enhance 
filtration, allow customization, and improve capture efficiency. Research is 
progressing on sustainable, biodegradable filters, particularly with cellulose 
materials. This review outlines mask types and limitations, spotlighting 
nanofibrous filters for their filtration efficiency, breathability, and 
sustainability. It also delves into nanofiber manufacturing and assesses 
bacterial cellulose-a promising renewable nanofibrous material suited for air 
filtration.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.137627
PMID: 39547626

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2024 Nov 13:S0091-6749(24)01189-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.008. Online ahead of print.

Early-life Upper Airway Microbiota are Associated with Decreased Lower 
Respiratory Tract Infections.

Zelasko S(1), Swaney MH(2), Sandstrom S(3), Lee KE(4), Dixon J(5), Riley C(5), 
Watson L(5), Godfrey JJ(5), Ledrowski N(5), Rey F(6), Safdar N(7), Seroogy 
CM(8), Gern JE(9), Kalan L(10), Currie C(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA; Microbiology Doctoral Training Program, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA. Electronic address: 
szelasko@wisc.edu.
(2)Microbiology Doctoral Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin, USA; Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, 
School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(6)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Affairs 
Hospital, Madison, WI, USA.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(9)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(10)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine and 
Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; 
Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Madison, Wisconsin, USA; M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease 
Research, David Braley Centre for Antibiotic Discovery, Department of 
Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.
(11)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA; M.G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious Disease Research, David 
Braley Centre for Antibiotic Discovery, Department of Biochemistry and 
Biomedical Sciences, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. Electronic 
address: ccurrie@mcmaster.ca.

Microbial interactions mediating colonization resistance play key roles within 
the human microbiome, shaping susceptibility to infection from birth. To gain 
insight into microbiome-mediated defenses and respiratory pathogen colonization 
dynamics, we sequenced and analyzed nasal (n=229) and oral (n=210) microbiomes 
with associated health/environmental data from our Wisconsin Infant Study Cohort 
at age 24-months. Participants with early-life lower respiratory tract infection 
(LRTI) were more likely to be formula-fed, attend daycare, and experience 
wheezing. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing with detection of viral and bacterial 
respiratory pathogens revealed nasal microbiome composition to associate with 
prior LRTI - namely lower alpha diversity, depletion of Prevotella, and 
enrichment of Moraxella catarrhalis including drug-resistant strains. Prevotella 
originating from healthy microbiomes had higher biosynthetic gene cluster 
abundance and exhibited contact-independent inhibition of M. catarrhalis, 
suggesting interbacterial competition impacts nasal pathogen colonization. This 
work advances understanding of protective host-microbial interactions occurring 
in airway microbiomes that alter infection susceptibility in early-life.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2024.11.008
PMID: 39547283

1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Nov 14;108(1):516. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-024-13324-x.

Effects of sulfamethoxazole and copper on the natural microbial community from a 
fertilized soil.

Narciso A(1)(2), Grenni P(1)(3), Spataro F(4)(5), De Carolis C(1)(6)(7), Rauseo 
J(3)(8), Patrolecco L(3)(8), Garbini GL(1), Rolando L(1), Iannelli MA(3), 
Bustamante MA(9), Alvarez-Alonso C(9), Barra Caracciolo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Water Research Institute, National Research Council (IRSA-CNR), 
Montelibretti, 00010, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Ecological and Biological Sciences, Tuscia University, 01100, 
Viterbo, Italy.
(3)National Biodiversity Future Center (NBFC), Palermo, Italy.
(4)National Biodiversity Future Center (NBFC), Palermo, Italy. 
francesca.spataro@cnr.it.
(5)Institute of Polar Sciences-National Research Council (ISP-CNR), 
Montelibretti, 00010, Rome, Italy. francesca.spataro@cnr.it.
(6)Department of Environmental Biology, Sapienza University of Rome, 00185, 
Rome, Italy.
(7)Institute of Agricultural Biology and Biotechnology, National Research 
Council (IBBA-CNR), Montelibretti, 00010, Rome, Italy.
(8)Institute of Polar Sciences-National Research Council (ISP-CNR), 
Montelibretti, 00010, Rome, Italy.
(9)Centro de Investigación e Innovación Agroalimentaria y Agroambiental 
(CIAGRO-UMH), Miguel Hernandez University, Orihuela, 03312, Alicante, Spain.

Cattle manure or its digestate, which often contains antibiotic residues, can be 
used as an organic fertilizer and copper (Cu) as a fungicide in agriculture. 
Consequently, both antibiotics and Cu are considered soil contaminants. In this 
work, microcosms were performed with soil amended with either manure or 
digestate with Cu and an antibiotic (sulfamethoxazole, SMX) co-presence and the 
planting of Lactuca sativa. After the addition of the organic amendments, a 
prompt increase in the microbial activity and at the same time of the sul1 and 
intI1 genes was observed, although ARGs generally decreased over time. In the 
amended and spiked microcosms, the microbial community was able to remove more 
than 99% of SMX in 36 days and the antibiotic did not bioaccumulate in the 
lettuce. Interestingly, where Cu and SMX were co-present, ARGs (particularly 
sul2) increased, showing how copper had a strong effect on resistance 
persistence in the soil. Copper also had a detrimental effect on the 
plant-microbiome system, affecting plant biomass and microbial activity in all 
conditions except in a digestate presence. When adding digestate microbial 
activity, biodiversity and lettuce biomass increased, with or without copper 
present. Not only did the microbial community favour plant growth, but lettuce 
also positively influenced its composition by increasing bacterial diversity and 
classes (e.g., Alphaproteobacteria) and genera (e.g., Bacillus), thus indicating 
a good-quality soil. KEY POINTS: • Cattle digestate promoted the highest 
microbial activity, diversity, and plant growth • Cattle digestate counteracted 
detrimental contaminant effects • Cu presence promoted antibiotic 
cross-resistance in soil.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-024-13324-x
PMCID: PMC11564247
PMID: 39540947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations The authors declare no competing 
interests. The authors declare that they agree with the content and that all 
gave explicit consent to submit and that they obtained consent from the 
responsible authorities at the institute/organization where the work has been 
carried out before the work is submitted and the research study was performed 
without involving human participants and/or animals.

1. J Med Virol. 2024 Nov;96(11):e70063. doi: 10.1002/jmv.70063.

Impact of COVID-19 on the Prevalence and Drug Resistance of Bacteria Isolated 
From Bacterial Meningitis Cerebrospinal Fluid in Shandong Province: A 
Multicenter Retrospective Study.

Zhang C(1)(2), Wang M(1)(2), Sun S(3), Yi M(4), Wang S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Children's Hospital affiliated to 
Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Clinical Research Center for Children's Health and 
Disease, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Linyi People's Hospital, Linyi, Shandong, 
China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Yantai Yuhuangding Hospital, Yantai, 
Shandong, China.

Our objective was to evaluate the ramifications of the 2019 coronavirus disease 
(COVID-19) pandemic on the microbial profile and antimicrobial resistance 
patterns of bacteria isolated from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) specimens of 
patients with bacterial meningitis. We conducted a retrospective analysis of 
laboratory results and clinical records about positive CSF cultures reported by 
the SPARSS network from 2017 to 2023. The study covered three distinct periods: 
January 2017 to December 2019 (before the COVID-19 pandemic), January 2020 to 
December 2022 (during the COVID-19 pandemic), and January 2023 to December 2023 
(after the COVID-19 pandemic), with a total of 5793 CSF isolates collected. 
Notably, the proportion of male patients (61.3%) was higher than that of 
females. After COVID-19, we observed a notable shift in the seasonal peak of CSF 
pathogens, with a delay of approximately 3 months. Remarkable alterations were 
evident in both pediatric and adult CSF isolate profiles. In children, the 
predominant pathogens included coagulase-negative Staphylococcus (CoNS), 
Streptococcus pneumonia, and Escherichia coli. Notably. After COVID-19, there 
was a significant decrease in the proportion of CoNS (p = 0.0039) and a notable 
increase in E. coli (p = 0.0067). In adults, the top three pathogens were CoNS, 
Acinetobacter baumannii, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. After the pandemic, we 
observed a significant reduction in the prevalence of A. baumannii (p = 0.0059), 
while the proportions of K. pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter 
cloacae, and Enterococcus faecalis increased significantly (p < 0.05). 
Additionally, among multidrug-resistant bacteria, the detection rate of 
carbapenem-resistant E. coli escalated (p = 0.0375). Antimicrobial 
susceptibility analysis indicated a declining trend in resistance rates for CoNS 
and A. baumannii to certain antibiotics following the pandemic. Conversely, 
resistance to imipenem in A. baumannii increased. In conclusion, the COVID-19 
pandemic has significantly influenced the composition, antimicrobial resistance 
patterns, and epidemiological dynamics of CSF-isolated bacteria in Shandong 
province. To effectively address these changes, ongoing and dynamic surveillance 
of pathogen trends and antimicrobial resistance rate is essential.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.70063
PMID: 39540426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Exp Parasitol. 2024 Nov 11:108861. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2024.108861. Online 
ahead of print.

Saikosaponin inhibits Eimeria tenella infection by modifying the NF-κB pathway 
and regulating cytokines and the intestinal microbial community.

Meng X(1), Gan X(2), Wang Y(3), Zhang Q(4), Duan X(5), Wang Y(6), Zhao Q(7), Cai 
Y(8).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China. Electronic address: megxinru0811@163.com.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China. Electronic address: gan9201211@163.com.
(3)First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 130061, China. Electronic 
address: yingbo5373@163.com.
(4)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China. Electronic address: 15247056929@163.com.
(5)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China. Electronic address: 15048180317@163.com.
(6)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China. Electronic address: mxr885426@163.com.
(7)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China; Key Laboratory of Animal Production, Product Quality 
and Security, Ministry of Education, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, 
130118, China. Electronic address: zhaoquan0825@163.com.
(8)College of Animal Science and Technology, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China; Key Laboratory of Animal Production, Product Quality 
and Security, Ministry of Education, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, 
130118, China. Electronic address: caiyanan0925@163.com.

Eimeria tenella (E. tenella) is an intestinal parasite that not only endangers 
the health of broiler chickens but may also cause death in severe cases. 
However, the growing critical problem of drug resistance in E. tenella 
complicates therapy. Consequently, a more natural and safer technique for 
treating E. tenella is urgently warranted. Saikosaponin (SS) is a saponin 
component extracted from the traditional Chinese herb Chaihu that has been 
demonstrated to treat various diseases. However, little is known regarding the 
function of SS in E. tenella treatment. In the present investigation, SS lowered 
the weight loss rate and increased the survival rate of broiler chickens 
infected with E. tenella. SS inhibited the NF-κB pathway and regulated the gut 
microbiota structure to inhibit E. tenella-induced inflammatory damage in 
broiler chickens. In addition, 16S high-throughput sequencing results 
demonstrated that SS reconstructed the gut microbiota of E. tenella infected 
broilers, preserving gut microbial balance, increasing the production of total 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), repairing intestinal villi and intestinal wall 
integrity, and decreasing inflammatory cell infiltration in the cecum. Overall, 
these findings show that SS could prevent E. tenella-induced inflammatory damage 
in broiler chickens by blocking the NF-κ B pathway and regulating the gut 
microbiota composition.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2024.108861
PMID: 39536811

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or 
financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.

1. ISME Commun. 2024 Oct 18;4(1):ycae123. doi: 10.1093/ismeco/ycae123.
eCollection  2024 Jan.

Longitudinal exposure to antiseizure medications shape gut-derived microbiome, 
resistome, and metabolome landscape.

Dop C(1), Auvin S(2)(3)(4), Mondot S(1), Lepage P(1), Ilhan ZE(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Saclay, Institut National de Recherche pour l'Agriculture, 
l'Alimentation et l'Environnement (INRAE), AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, 
Domaine de Vilvert, Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(2)Université de Paris, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche 
Médicale (INSERM), NeuroDiderot, Paris, France.
(3)Pediatric Neurology Department, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (APHP), 
Robert Debré University Hospital, Paris, France.
(4)Institut Universitaire de France, Paris, France.

The influence of chronically administered host-targeted drugs on the gut 
microbiome remains less understood compared to antibiotics. We investigated 
repetitive exposure effects of three common antiseizure medications 
[carbamazepine (CBZ), valproic acid, and levetiracetam] on the gut microbial 
composition, resistome, and metabolome using microcosms constructed from feces 
of young children. Microcosms were established by cultivating feces for 24 h 
(C0). These microcosms were daily transferred into fresh media for seven cycles 
(C1-C7) with antiseizure medications or carrier molecules, followed by four 
cycles without any drugs (C8-C11). The microbial dynamics and resistome of 
microcosms at C0, C1, C7, and C11 were assessed with 16S ribosomal ribonucleic 
acid gene sequencing or shotgun metagenome sequencing and real-time quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction analysis of the antimicrobial resistance genes, 
respectively. Metabolites of CBZ-treated and control microcosms at C0, C1, and 
C7 were evaluated using non-targeted metabolomics. Our findings revealed that 
the serial transfer approach longitudinally altered the microcosm composition. 
Among the medications, CBZ had the most substantial impact on the structure and 
metabolism of the feces-derived microcosms. The microbiome composition partially 
recovered during the drug-free period. Specifically, Bacteroides and 
Flavonifractor were depleted and Escherichia and Clostridium were enriched. 
Additionally, repetitive CBZ exposure increased the abundance and expression of 
genes related to various antibiotic resistance mechanisms, more specifically, 
efflux pumps and antibiotic target alteration. CBZ-induced changes in the 
microbiome were mirrored in the metabolome, with reductions in the citric acid 
cycle metabolites, glutamine, and spermidine, alongside increased levels of 
vitamin B6. Our study suggests that repetitive CBZ exposure may negatively 
impact gut microbial homeostasis and metabolism.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
International Society for Microbial Ecology.

DOI: 10.1093/ismeco/ycae123
PMCID: PMC11544314
PMID: 39526134

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.

1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 20;16(46):63241-63254. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c13360. Epub 2024 Nov 11.

Broad-Spectrum Bactericidal Multifunctional Tiny Silicon-Based Nanoparticles 
Modified with Tannic Acid for Healing Infected Diabetic Wounds.

Shen Y(1), Jia T(2), Zeng J(2), Wang J(1), Zhao Z(1), Liu Y(1), Jing Y(1), Pan 
J(1), Ma M(1), Fu Y(1), Wei S(1), Li J(1), Wang D(1), Wang C(1), Chen G(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Bio-based Material Science and Technology, Ministry of 
Education, Engineering Research Center of Advanced Wooden Materials, Ministry of 
Education, College of Material Science and Engineering, Northeast Forestry 
University, Harbin, 150040, P. R. China.
(2)MIIT Key Laboratory of Critical Materials Technology for New Energy 
Conversion and Storage, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering and Key 
Laboratory of Microsystems and Microstructures, Ministry of Education, Harbin 
Institute of Technology, Harbin, 150001, P. R. China.

Infected chronic wounds, in particular, diabetic wounds, are hard to heal, 
posing a global health concern with high morbidity and mortality rates. Diabetic 
full-thickness wounds infected with E. coli belong to the most difficult to heal 
chronic infected wounds. Here, we introduced tannic acid-modified silicon-based 
nanoparticles (TA-SiNPs) with broad-spectrum bactericidal activity that bacteria 
develop minimal resistance to, and they can effectively treat full-thickness 
wounds in diabetic mice infected with E. coli. Our findings indicate that these 
TA-SiNPs could achieve 100% antibacterial efficiency against S. aureus and 
99.83% against E. coli, underlied by a positive surface charge and tannic acid 
groups facilitating bacterial membrane chemical composition depletion and 
depolarization of the membrane. In addition, we showed that spraying TA-SiNPs 
onto the skin wound of diabetic mice infected with E. coli resulted in wound 
healing with 98% closure after 12 days, in stark contrast to 49% of the control 
(PBS) and 68% of the one treated with Ofloxacin. Along with infection inhibition 
and ROS scavenging, we identified cell proliferation stimulation, inflammatory 
cytokine downregulation, and healing cytokine upregulation in the lesion, 
favoring the healing process. This study not only demonstrates the feasibility 
of employing silicon-based nanoparticles in diabetic wound healing for the first 
time, but also reports the first broad-spectrum bactericidal silicon nanodots. 
Furthermore, this provides novel insights into the mechanism of tannin-based 
nanoparticles disrupting bacterial membranes by depleting their chemical 
constituents. Our results highlighted that the developed TA-SiNPs are an 
effective nanomaterial for treating the infected chronic wounds.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c13360
PMID: 39523807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Parasit Vectors. 2024 Nov 7;17(1):456. doi: 10.1186/s13071-024-06556-3.

Carry-over effects of Bacillus thuringiensis on tolerant Aedes albopictus 
mosquitoes.

Bahrami R(#)(1), Quaranta S(#)(1), Perdomo HD(1), Bonizzoni M(1), Khorramnejad 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(2)University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy. ayda.khorramnejad@unipv.it.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The biological larvicide Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis 
(Bti) represents a safe and effective alternative to chemical insecticides for 
mosquito control. Efficient control of mosquitoes implicates continuous and 
extensive application of Bti. This massive use of Bti imposes strong selective 
pressure, but the complex mode of action of the numerous synergistic Bti 
endotoxins lower the risk of the emergence of resistance. Although resistance to 
Bti has not been identified at the population level in nature, some larvae can 
survive Bti exposure, suggesting tolerance mechanisms. Here we investigated 
whether Bti-tolerant Aedes albopictus larvae experience any fitness costs. We 
also studied how this tolerance affects different aspects of the phenotype of 
the emerging adults that could be relevant for arboviral transmission.
METHODS: We exposed Ae. albopictus larvae to lethal concentration of Bti and 
studied the fitness and gut microbiota of tolerant larvae and their adult 
counterparts. We further compared the transcript abundance of nine key immunity 
genes in the gut of Bti-tolerant larvae and their emerging adults versus those 
not exposed to Bti.
RESULTS: Our results showed that Bti exposure has multifaceted impacts on 
Ae. albopictus mosquitoes during both larval and adult stages. The carry-over 
effect of Bti exposure on tolerant larvae manifested in reduced adult emergence 
rate, shorter lifespan, and decreased fecundity. Bti also alters the gut 
microbiota of both larvae and adults. We observed higher microbial diversity in 
Bti-tolerant larvae and changes in the richness of core microbiota. Bti 
infection and the altered microbiota triggered immune responses in the larval 
and adult guts.
CONCLUSIONS: The observed reduction in mosquito fitness and changes in the 
composition of the microbiota of adults emerging from tolerant larvae could 
negatively influence mosquito vectorial capacity. Understanding these impacts is 
crucial for evaluating the broader implications of Bti-based insecticides in 
mosquito control programs.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-024-06556-3
PMCID: PMC11545555
PMID: 39511654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 20;16(46):63404-63418. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c16618. Epub 2024 Nov 7.

Synergistic Integration of α-Ag(2)WO(4) into PLA/PBAT for the Development of 
Electrospun Membranes: Advancing Structural Integrity and Antimicrobial 
Efficacy.

Assis M(1), L Breitenbach G(2), Martí M(1), Sánchez-Safont E(3), Alfaro-Peyró 
A(1), Cabedo L(3), Garcia-Verdugo E(2), Andrés J(4), Serrano-Aroca Á(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomaterials and Bioengineering Lab, Translational Research Centre San 
Alberto Magno, Catholic University of Valencia San Vicente Mártir (UCV), 
Valencia 46001, Spain.
(2)Department of Inorganic and Organic Chemistry, Universitat Jaume I (UJI), 
Castelló de la Plana 12071, Spain.
(3)Polymers and Advanced Materials Group (PIMA), Universitat Jaume I (UJI), 
Castelló de la Plana 12071, Spain.
(4)Department of Physical and Analytical Chemistry, Universitat Jaume I (UJI), 
Castelló de la Plana 12071, Spain.

The rising resistance of various pathogens and the demand for materials that 
prevent infections drive the need to develop broad-spectrum antimicrobial 
membranes capable of combating a range of microorganisms, thereby enhancing 
safety in biomedical and industrial applications. Herein, we introduce a simple 
and efficient technique to engineer membranes composed of polylactic acid (PLA) 
and polybutylene adipate terephthalate (PBAT) biopolymers and α-Ag2WO4 particles 
using an electrospinning technique. The corresponding structural, thermal, 
mechanical, and antimicrobial properties were characterized. X-ray diffraction 
(XRD) patterns confirmed the integration of crystalline α-Ag2WO4 within the 
polymer matrix. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and Raman confocal microscopy 
revealed uniformly dispersed α-Ag2WO4 particles in the electrospun fibers, 
influencing their diameter and surface roughness. Thermal analysis indicated 
adjustments in the thermal stability and crystallinity of the composites with an 
increasing α-Ag2WO4 content. Dynamic mechanical analysis (DMA) highlighted 
variations in storage modulus and glass transition temperatures due to 
interactions between α-Ag2WO4 and polymer chains, with tensile tests showing an 
increase in elastic modulus and ultimate tensile strength as the α-Ag2WO4 
content increased. Antimicrobial assessments revealed that PLA/PBAT membranes 
with α-Ag2WO4 showed pronounced antibacterial activity, forming inhibition halos 
across all samples against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus, and Mycobacterium smegmatis (a surrogate for 
Mycobacterium tuberculosis). These membranes also exhibited potent antiviral 
activity against bacteriophage phi 6, a surrogate for SARS-CoV-2, suggesting 
potential applications in combating infections caused by enveloped viruses. The 
antimicrobial activities are attributed to the generation of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) and the controlled release of Ag+ ions. This work underscores the 
multifaceted capabilities of α-Ag2WO4-enhanced PLA/PBAT membranes in combating 
bacterial and viral growth, where both durability and microbial resistance are 
critical. Taken together, our findings provide a solution for obtaining advanced 
materials to be applied in a wide range of industrial applications, such as 
filtration systems, food preservation, antimicrobial coatings, protective 
textiles, and cleaning products.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c16618
PMID: 39509654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. ACS Nano. 2024 Nov 19;18(46):31923-31940. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.4c09695. Epub 
2024 Nov 7.

A Mucous Permeable Local Delivery Strategy Based on Manganese-Enhanced Bacterial 
Cuproptosis-like Death for Bacterial Pneumonia Treatment.

Hua S(1)(2)(3), Hu H(4), Liu J(2), Lu F(5), Yu R(2), Zhang X(1)(2), Sun H(2), 
Wang Z(2), Li Y(2), Xia J(6), Xu F(4), Zhou M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Eye Center, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of 
Medicine, Hangzhou310009, China.
(2)ZJU-Etuoke Joint Research Centre, Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh 
Institute (ZJU-UoE Institute), Zhejiang University, Haining 314400, China.
(3)Institute of Translational Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310029, 
China.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, The Affiliated Changzhou No.2 People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou213003, China.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, the Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.

Bacterial pneumonia is one of the most challenging global infectious diseases 
with high morbidity and mortality. Considering the antibiotic abuse and 
resistance of bacterial biofilms, a variety of metal-based materials have been 
developed. However, due to the high oxygen environment of the lungs, some 
aerobic infection bacteria have high tolerance to oxygen and ROS, and most of 
the metal-based materials based on ROS may not achieve good therapeutic effects. 
Inspired by the sensitivity of cuproptosis to aerobic respiratory cells, we 
designed a copper composite antibacterial nanoparticle and found that it can 
effectively induce cuproptosis-like death in the aerobic bacteria of the lungs. 
To address the challenge of in vivo application of cuproptosis, manganese 
dioxide was first incorporated to deplete protective glutathione, which can 
interact with copper and thus hinder the interaction of copper with proteins and 
assist in antibacterial action through immune enhancement. Cuproptosis-like 
death also requires a large number of copper ions. To meet this demand, we 
deliver positively hydrophilic modified composite nanoparticles that effectively 
penetrate the lung mucus layer directly to the lungs through local 
administration, and the copper ions are further released rapidly by the acidic 
environment at the infected site, which can further destroy bacterial biofilms 
in synergy with manganese. This drug-delivery system can effectively treat 
pneumonia caused by aerobic bacteria and avoid systemic toxicity that can be 
caused by large doses of copper.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.4c09695
PMID: 39506631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 20;16(46):63964-63977. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c09955. Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Enhancing Strawberry Freshness: Multifunction Sustainable Films Utilizing Two 
Types of Modified Carbon Nanotubes for Photothermal Food Packaging.

Chen X(1), Wang L(1)(2), Zhang D(1), Bu N(3), Liu W(2), Wu Z(1), Mu R(1), Tan 
P(1), Zhong Y(1), Pang J(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou 
350002, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Colloid and Interface Chemistry, Ministry of Education, 
Shandong University, Jinan 250100, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Chemical Resource Engineering, Beijing Advanced 
Innovation Center for Soft Matter Science and Engineering, Beijing University of 
Chemical Technology, Beijing 100029, China.

Currently, antimicrobial films with stable and efficient antibacterial 
activities are receiving considerable attention in the food packaging industry. 
Herein, a chemically/physically linked konjac glucomannan-sodium alginate 
(KGM-SA)@carbon nanotubes (CNTs)/Fe3+ composite film with outstanding resistance 
to ultraviolet radiation, oxidation, and bacteria, as well as excellent 
photothermal effects and mechanical properties, was successfully prepared using 
a solvent flow method. Tannic acid-modified carboxyl-functionalized CNTs 
(TCCNTs), l-cysteine-modified carboxyl-functionalized CNTs (LCCNTs), and Fe3+ 
were incorporated into the prepared film. The film structure of KGM-SA@CNTs/Fe3+ 
was characterized using various methods, confirming the formation of a 
dual-cross-linked network through metal-coordination bonds and hydrogen bonding. 
This unique structure endowed the film with excellent water vapor permeability 
(3.58 g mm/m2 day kPa), water resistance (water contact angle = 93.66°), and 
thermal stability. Further, the film exhibited outstanding photothermal 
conversion efficiency and stability under near-infrared irradiation (300 mW/cm2) 
as well as excellent bactericidal properties against Staphylococcus aureus and 
Escherichia coli, achieving a bacterial inhibition rate of >99%. In a strawberry 
preservation experiment, the KGM-SA@CNTs/Fe3+ composite film exhibited 
remarkable preservation effects, extending the shelf life of strawberries by 4-6 
d. Thus, this photothermal antibacterial film offers a new approach for the 
application of CNTs in food packaging.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c09955
PMID: 39504039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 6;14(1):26867. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-76466-y.

Profiling the bacterial microbiome diversity and assessing the potential to 
detect antimicrobial resistance bacteria in wastewater in Kimberley, South 
Africa.

Stewart RD(1), Oluwalana-Sanusi AE(2)(3), Munzeiwa WA(2), Magoswana L(4), 
Chaukura N(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Agricultural Sciences, Sol Plaatje University, 
Kimberley, 8301, South Africa.
(2)Department of Physical and Earth Sciences, Sol Plaatje University, Kimberley, 
8301, South Africa.
(3)Centre for Global Change, Sol Plaatje University, Kimberley, 8301, South 
Africa.
(4)National Herbarium, South African National Biodiversity Institute, Private 
Bag X101, Pretoria, South Africa.
(5)Department of Physical and Earth Sciences, Sol Plaatje University, Kimberley, 
8301, South Africa. nhamo.chaukura@spu.ac.za.

Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are hotspots for pathogens, and can 
facilitate horizontal gene transfer, potentially releasing harmful genetic 
material and antimicrobial resistance genes into the environment. Little 
information exists on the composition and behavior of microbes in WWTPs, 
especially in developing countries. This study used environmental DNA (eDNA) 
techniques to examine the microbiome load of wastewater from WWTPs. The DNA was 
isolated from wastewater samples collected from the treatment trains of three 
WWTPs in Kimberley, South Africa, and the microbial diversity and composition 
was compared through 16 S rRNA gene sequencing. The microbes detected were of 
the Kingdom Bacteria, and of these, 48.27% were successfully identified to genus 
level. The majority of reads from the combined bacterial data fall within the 
class Gammaproteobacteria, which is known to adversely impact ecological and 
human health. Arcobacteraceae constituted 19% of the bacterial reads, which is 
expected as this family is widespread in aquatic environments. Interestingly, 
the most abundant bacterial group was Bacteroides, which contain a variety of 
antibiotic-resistant members. Overall, various antibiotic-resistant taxa were 
detected in the wastewater, indicating a concerning level of antibiotic 
resistance within the bacterial community. Therefore, eDNA analysis can be a 
valuable tool in monitoring and assessing the bacterial microbiome in 
wastewater, thus providing important information for the optimization and 
improvement of wastewater treatment systems and mitigate public health risks.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-76466-y
PMCID: PMC11538266
PMID: 39500921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Genome Res. 2024 Nov 20;34(11):2048-2060. doi: 10.1101/gr.279226.124.

Factors impacting target-enriched long-read sequencing of resistomes and 
mobilomes.

Slizovskiy IB(1)(2), Bonin N(3)(4), Bravo JE(3), Ferm PM(1), Singer J(1), 
Boucher C(3), Noyes NR(5).

Author information:
(1)Food-Centric Corridor, Infectious Disease Laboratory, Department of 
Veterinary Population Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA.
(2)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana 47907, USA.
(3)Department of Computer and Information Science and Engineering, Herbert 
Wertheim College of Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 
32611, USA.
(4)Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland, College Park, 
Maryland 20742, USA.
(5)Food-Centric Corridor, Infectious Disease Laboratory, Department of 
Veterinary Population Medicine, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, Minnesota 55108, USA; nnoyes@umn.edu.

We investigated the efficiency of target-enriched long-read sequencing (TELSeq) 
for detecting antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs) and mobile genetic elements 
(MGEs) within complex matrices. We aimed to overcome limitations associated with 
traditional antimicrobial resistance (AMR) detection methods, including 
short-read shotgun metagenomics, which can lack sensitivity, specificity, and 
the ability to provide detailed genomic context. By combining biotinylated 
probe-based enrichment with long-read sequencing, we facilitated the 
amplification and sequencing of ARGs, eliminating the need for bioinformatic 
reconstruction. Our experimental design included replicates of human fecal 
microbiota transplant material, bovine feces, pristine prairie soil, and a mock 
human gut microbial community, allowing us to examine variables including 
genomic DNA input and probe set composition. Our findings demonstrated that 
TELSeq markedly improves the detection rates of ARGs and MGEs compared to 
traditional sequencing methods, underlining its potential for accurate AMR 
monitoring. A key insight from our research is the importance of incorporating 
mobilome profiles to better predict the transferability of ARGs within microbial 
communities, prompting a recommendation for the use of combined ARG-MGE probe 
sets for future studies. We also reveal limitations for ARG detection from 
low-input workflows, and describe the next steps for ongoing protocol refinement 
to minimize technical variability and expand utility in clinical and public 
health settings. This effort is part of our broader commitment to advancing 
methodologies that address the global challenge of AMR.

© 2024 Slizovskiy et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.279226.124
PMID: 39500537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Biochim Biophys Acta Biomembr. 2025 Jan;1867(1):184395. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbamem.2024.184395. Epub 2024 Nov 3.

Growth of Staphylococcus aureus in the presence of oleic acid shifts the 
glycolipid fatty acid profile and increases resistance to antimicrobial 
peptides.

Raskovic D(1), Alvarado G(2), Hines KM(3), Xu L(4), Gatto C(5), Wilkinson BJ(5), 
Pokorny A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of North Carolina 
Wilmington, Wilmington, NC, United States of America.
(2)Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 
United States of America; School of Biological Sciences, Illinois State 
University, Normal, IL, United States of America.
(3)Department of Chemistry, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States of 
America.
(4)Department of Medicinal Chemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
United States of America.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, Illinois State University, Normal, IL, United 
States of America.
(6)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of North Carolina 
Wilmington, Wilmington, NC, United States of America. Electronic address: 
almeidaa@uncw.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 May 05:2024.05.03.592415. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.03.592415.

Staphylococcus aureus readily adapts to various environments and quickly 
develops antibiotic resistance, which has led to an increase in 
multidrug-resistant infections. Hence, S. aureus presents a significant global 
health issue and its adaptations to the host environment are crucial for 
understanding pathogenesis and antibiotic susceptibility. When S. aureus is 
grown conventionally, its membrane lipids contain a mix of branched-chain and 
straight-chain saturated fatty acids. However, when unsaturated fatty acids are 
present in the growth medium, they become a major part of the total fatty acid 
composition. This study explores the biophysical effects of incorporating 
straight-chain unsaturated fatty acids into S. aureus membrane lipids. Membrane 
preparations from cultures supplemented with oleic acid showed more complex 
differential scanning calorimetry scans than those grown in tryptic soy broth 
alone. When grown in the presence of oleic acid, the cultures exhibited a 
transition significantly above the growth temperature, attributed to the 
presence of glycolipids with long-chain fatty acids causing acyl chain packing 
frustration within the bilayer. Functional aspects of the membrane were assessed 
by studying the kinetics of dye release from unilamellar vesicles induced by the 
antimicrobial peptide mastoparan X. Dye release was slower from liposomes 
prepared from cells grown in oleic acid-supplemented cultures, suggesting that 
changes in membrane lipid composition and biophysics protect the cell membrane 
against peptide-induced lysis. These findings underscore the intricate 
relationship between the growth environment, membrane lipid composition, and the 
physical properties of the bacterial membrane, which should be considered when 
developing new strategies against S. aureus infections.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamem.2024.184395
PMID: 39500386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. PLoS One. 2024 Nov 4;19(11):e0313224. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0313224. 
eCollection 2024.

Single-step hydrothermal synthesis of zinc oxide nanorods for potential use as 
nano-antibiotics without seeding or bases.

Hoang CNM(1), Nguyen KD(2), Luong TTH(2), Nguyen SH(3), Tran MT(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)VinUni-Illinois Smart Health Center, VinUniversity, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(2)College of Health Science, VinUniversity, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)School of Mechanical Engineering, Hanoi University of Science and Technology, 
Hanoi, Vietnam.
(4)College of Engineering and Computer Science, VinUniversity, Hanoi, Vietnam.

The alarming global rise in antibiotic resistance, driven by the widespread 
overuse of traditional antibiotics, has created an urgent demand for new 
antimicrobial solutions. This study presents zinc oxide (ZnO) nanorods as a 
potential nano-antibiotic agent. ZnO nanorods, with a 2:3 aspect ratio, were 
synthesized using an efficient one-step hydrothermal method at a low temperature 
of 100°C, reducing the synthesis time to just 5 hours. The synthesized ZnO 
nanorods' morphology, structure, and composition were characterized using 
scanning electron microscopy, x-ray diffraction, and energy dispersive x-ray 
spectroscopy. The potent antimicrobial activity of these nanorods against common 
bacterial strains such as Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, and Vibrio 
parahaemolyticus was examined through optical density at 600 nm (OD600) 
measurements and inhibition zone analysis, demonstrating substantial inhibition 
of bacterial growth. In particular, at a concentration of 5 mg/mL, ZnO nanorods 
achieved a 96% reduction of B. subtilis bacteria in OD600 and an impressive 
99.87% reduction in culturing assays within one day, showcasing bactericidal 
efficiency on par with tetracycline at 0.003 mg/mL. Furthermore, a predictive 
model of bacterial growth was developed and validated, providing insights into 
the time-dependent bactericidal efficiency of the synthesized nanorods. These 
results highlight the potential of ZnO-based composites as a promising solution 
to combat antibiotic resistance, paving the way for next-generation 
antimicrobial materials.

Copyright: © 2024 Hoang et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0313224
PMCID: PMC11534225
PMID: 39495763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.

1. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2024 Oct 18;14:1477230. doi: 
10.3389/fcimb.2024.1477230. eCollection 2024.

Comparing the frequency, antifungal susceptibility, and enzymatic profiles of 
the oral fungal composition in patients with and without Alzheimer's disease 
admitted to a neurology clinic.

Golipoor M(1), Rafat Z(#)(2), Saberi A(3), Roostaei D(#)(4), Shabanpour AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, School of Medicine, Guilan University 
of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Parasitology and Mycology, School of Medicine, Guilan 
University of Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(3)Neuroscience Research Center, School of Medicine, Guilan University of 
Medical Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Guilan University of Medical 
Sciences, Rasht, Iran.
(5)Student research committee, Anzali International Medical Campus, Guilan 
University of Medical Sciences, Guilan, Iran.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Studies have shown that changes in the frequency of oral 
microorganisms may play a key role in the development of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). However, no research has been conducted on the oral fungal composition in 
AD-patients. The present study aimed to investigate the changes in the frequency 
of oral fungal composition, the antifungal susceptibility, and the enzymatic 
profiles of oral fungal composition in patients suffering from AD compared to 
non-AD individuals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present analytical cross-sectional study during 12 
months, 76 hospitalized patients with AD were matched with 76 individuals 
without AD. A sterile serum physiology-moistened cotton-tipped swab was used to 
sample the mouth area. All swabs were cultured on Sabouraud Chloramphenicol 
Agar. Fungal identified were confirmed through the PCR-sequencing techniques. 
Enzyme activity index (EAI) for important pathogenic factors including 
proteinase, esterase and hemolysin was measured using relevant protocols. The 
susceptibility to 8 antifungal agents (nystatin, voriconazole, itraconazole, 
fluconazole, posaconazole, amphotericin B, 5-fluorocytosine, and caspofungin) 
against fungal strains obtained from AD-patients was evaluated according to the 
Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines, document M38-A2 
for filamentous fungi, and document M27-A4 for yeasts.
RESULTS: The results showed that compared to the non-AD individuals, the 
prevalence of oral fungal composition in AD group was 1.6 times higher. Candida 
albicans was the most common fungal species isolated from oral swab samples of 
AD group (n=53, 80%) and non-AD group (n=28, 40%), and the diversity of the oral 
fungal composition in AD-patients were lower than non-AD individuals. Among the 
3 investigated virulence factors, a statistically significant difference was 
shown in terms of hemolysin activity level between the two studied groups 
(p<0.05) and the activity level of esterase and proteinase enzymes did not show 
a significant difference in the two studied groups (p>0.05). The results showed 
that almost all of the tested isolates were susceptible to nystatin, the most 
widely prescribed antifungal to treat superficial infections, and only 1.69 % 
(2/118) of the Candida isolates were resistant to this antifungal drug.
CONCLUSION: Understanding the changes in the frequency of oral fungal 
composition the antifungal susceptibility, and the enzymatic profiles of oral 
fungal composition in patients suffering from AD compared to non-AD individuals 
makes it possible to better understand the etiology of this disease.

Copyright © 2024 Golipoor, Rafat, Saberi, Roostaei and Shabanpour.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2024.1477230
PMCID: PMC11527782
PMID: 39492992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. J Environ Manage. 2024 Dec;371:123206. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123206.
Epub  2024 Nov 3.

Bioconversion of sulfamethazine-contaminated chicken manure by black soldier fly 
larvae: Effects on antibiotic resistance genes and microbial communities.

Cai T(1), Xia M(2), Yuan W(1), Ming Y(1), Zhang Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Lab for Urban Ecological Processes and Eco-Restoration, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Biotransformation of Organic Solid Waste, School 
of Ecological and Environmental Sciences, East China Normal University, 200241, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Chengtou Laogang Base Management Corporation, Nanbin Road, 201302, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Shanghai Key Lab for Urban Ecological Processes and Eco-Restoration, Shanghai 
Engineering Research Center of Biotransformation of Organic Solid Waste, School 
of Ecological and Environmental Sciences, East China Normal University, 200241, 
Shanghai, China; Institute of Eco-Chongming (IEC), 3663 N. Zhongshan Road, 
200062, Shanghai, China; Technology Innovation Center for Land Spatial 
Eco-restoration in Metropolitan Area, Ministry of Natural Resources, 3663 N. 
Zhongshan Road, 200062, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
qzhzhang@des.ecnu.edu.cn.

Sulfamethazine (SM2), a widely detected antibiotic in livestock manure, poses 
environmental and health risks due to its persistence and the proliferation of 
antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). In this study, we investigated the 
degradation of SM2 and the elimination of sulfonamide ARGs (sul1 and sul2) in 
chicken manure contaminated with varying concentration of SM2 by black soldier 
fly larvae (BSFL). Quantitative PCR and 16S rRNA gene sequencing were employed 
to monitor changes in sulfa ARGs and microbial community composition within both 
the larvae gut and chicken manure. During the 12-day test period, BSFL exhibited 
strong tolerance to SM2, significantly reducing SM2 concentrations by 
80.54%-92.22% across different treatment groups. Concurrently, the abundance of 
sul1 and sul2 decreased by 79.27% and 79.92% in chicken manure, respectively. 
Additionally, microbial genera such as Firmicutes (47.18-65%) and Bacillus 
(9.32-10.25%), which were enriched in both the BSFL gut and chicken manure, were 
identified as potential contributors to SM2 degradation. These findings provide 
a promising biotechnological strategy for mitigating antibiotic contamination in 
livestock manure.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123206
PMID: 39492136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Diagn Microbiol Infect Dis. 2025 Jan;111(1):116566. doi: 
10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2024.116566. Epub 2024 Oct 18.

Massilia shenzhen sp. nov., isolated from blood of one premature infant, causing 
sepsis.

Li X(1), Zheng W(2), Hao T(2), Yang T(2), Gao X(3), Zhang X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Anhui University of Science and Technology, 168 Taifeng 
Road, 232000 Huainan, PR China; Medical Laboratory of Shenzhen Luohu Hospital 
Group Luohu People's Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518005, PR China.
(2)Medical Laboratory of Shenzhen Luohu Hospital Group Luohu People's Hospital, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong 518005, PR China.
(3)Medical Laboratory of Shenzhen Luohu Hospital Group Luohu People's Hospital, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong 518005, PR China. Electronic address: 
gaoxiaojuan1990@outlook.com.
(4)School of Medicine, Anhui University of Science and Technology, 168 Taifeng 
Road, 232000 Huainan, PR China; Department of Medical Laboratory, The University 
of Hong Kong - Shenzhen Hospital, 518053, PR China. Electronic address: 
zxm0760@163.com.

This study explores a premature infant with respiratory failure and pneumonia, 
suggestive of neonatal sepsis. Despite initially negative clinical specimens, 
blood testing revealed a pathogen. MALDI-TOF-MS and physiological tests 
initially failed to identify it accurately. Subsequent analysis of the 16S rRNA 
gene, housekeeping genes, and whole genome sequencing placed it in the genus 
Massilia. Average Nucleotide Identities (ANIs) indicated 88.47 % similarity with 
the type strain of Massilia norwichensis. Detailed characterization showed it as 
Gram-negative, aerobic, flagellated, measuring 0.45-0.55 × 1.75-2.40 μm. Major 
fatty acids included C16:0, C16:1ω7c, C18:1ω7c, and cyclo-C17:0. Minimum 
inhibitory concentrations to ceftazidime, penicillin, and meropenem were <0.032 
μg/mL, ≤0.75 μg/mL, and <0.002 μg/mL respectively. Phylogenetic analysis, fatty 
acid composition, and physiological parameters confirmed it as Massilia shenzhen 
sp. nov., with strain GZ0329T. Given limited research on Massilia drug 
resistance, ceftazidime and imipenem show promise in treating Massilia 
infections.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2024.116566
PMID: 39490257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 1;14(1):26328. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-76773-4.

Resistome analysis of wastewater treatment plants in Agadir city, Morocco, using 
a metagenomics approach.

Wardi M(1), Lemkhente Z(2), Alla AA(3), Slimani N(3), Abali M(3), Idaghdour 
Y(4), Belmouden A(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Biology and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Sciences, 
Ibnou Zohr University, Agadir, Morocco.
(2)Laboratory of Medical-Surgical, Biomedicine and Infectiology Research, 
Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Ibnou Zohr University, Agadir, Morocco.
(3)Laboratory of Aquatic Systems: Marine and Continental Ecosystems, Faculty of 
Sciences, Ibnou Zohr University, Agadir, Morocco.
(4)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York University Abu Dhabi, Abu 
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(5)Laboratory of Cellular Biology and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Sciences, 
Ibnou Zohr University, Agadir, Morocco. a.belmouden@uiz.ac.ma.

Water scarcity has evolved into a pressing global issue, significantly impacting 
numerous regions worldwide. The use of treated wastewater stands out as a 
promising solution to this problem. However, the proliferation of various 
contaminants, primarily Antimicrobial Resistance Genes (ARGs), poses a 
significant challenge to its safe and sustainable use. In this study, we 
assessed the composition and abundance of 373 ARGs, corresponding to 31 
different classes of antibiotics, in six wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) in 
Agadir city of Morocco. Influent and effluent samples were collected during the 
months of February and July in 2020, in addition to samples from the Atlantic 
Ocean. In total, 223 ARGs were uncovered, highlighting in particular resistance 
to aminoglycoside, macrolide lincosamide, beta-lactamase, chloramphenicol, 
sulfonamide, tetracycline, and other antibiotics. The mechanisms of action of 
these ARGs were mainly antibiotic inactivation, antibiotic target alteration, 
efflux pump and cellular protection. Mobile genetic elements (MGEs) were 
detected at high levels their co-occurrence with ARGs highlights their 
involvement in the acquisition and transmission of ARGs in microbial communities 
through horizontal gene transfer. While many wastewater treatment methods 
effectively reduce a large proportion of gene material and pathogens, a 
substantial fraction of ARGs and other contaminants persist in treated 
wastewater. This persistence poses potential risks to both human health and the 
environment, warranting the need of more effective treatment strategies.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-76773-4
PMCID: PMC11530435
PMID: 39487157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Microb Pathog. 2024 Dec;197:107096. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107096. Epub 
2024 Oct 31.

The first report of submandibular lymph node infection with Flavobacterium ceti 
in a horse and its complete genome sequence.

Ryu SH(1), Jang B(2), Kim BS(3), Park KT(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Equine Resources Science, Cheju Halla University, Jeju, 63092, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Science, Inje University, Gimhae, 50834, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Department of Equine Science, Cheju Halla University, Jeju, 63092, Republic 
of Korea.
(4)Department of Biological Science, Inje University, Gimhae, 50834, Republic of 
Korea. Electronic address: ktpark@inje.ac.kr.

This is the first report describing the isolation and genome sequence of 
Flavobacterium ceti (F. ceti IJFC025) from a draining submandibular lymph node 
abscess in a 6-year-old mixed-breed mare in Korea. Since F. ceti is not a usual 
infectious pathogen that causes equine health problems, this study presents the 
complete genome sequence of F. ceti isolated from a submandibular lymph node 
abscess sample in Jeju, South Korea, in 2022. The entire genome sequence of F. 
ceti IJFC025 consisted of a 3,144,426-bp chromosome with 35.6 % G + C content. 
Gene prediction revealed that this strain possesses 2909 coding sequences 
(CDSs), 74 tRNAs, and five rRNAs. Average nucleotide identity analysis of the 
whole-genome sequence revealed 98.6 %-98.8 % nucleotide identity between F. ceti 
IJFC025 and F. ceti CECT7184, which was previously isolated from beaked whales. 
PathogenFinder revealed four different virulence genes in the genome that could 
potentially cause infections in horses. F. ceti CECT7184 contained genes 
encoding propionyl-CoA carboxylase, 3-oxoacid CoA-transferase A subunit, and the 
translation initiation factor IF-1, whereas F. ceti IJFC025 does not. Instead, 
F. ceti IJFC025 harbors genes encoding deoxyhypusine synthase, whereas F. ceti 
CECT7184 does not. Antimicrobial susceptibility tests revealed that F. ceti 
IJFC025 is a multidrug-resistant strain that is resistant to gentamicin, 
ceftazidime, nalidixic acid, ciprofloxacin, and colistin. However, no resistance 
genes were detected in the whole-genome sequence. Because of the similarity of 
the clinical signs with those of strangles, this pathogen needs to be included 
in the differential diagnosis of submandibular lymphadenopathy in horses.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107096
PMID: 39486552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests:Kun Taek Park reports financial 
support was provided by Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, Republic of Korea. Kun Taek Park reports a 
relationship with Animal and Plant Quarantine Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, 
Food and Rural Affairs, Republic of Korea that includes: funding grants. If 
there are other authors, they declare that they have no known competing 
financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to 
influence the work reported in this paper.

1. Water Res. 2024 Oct 20;268(Pt A):122670. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2024.122670. 
Online ahead of print.

Faecal contamination determines bacterial assemblages over natural environmental 
parameters within intermittently opened and closed lagoons (ICOLLs) during high 
rainfall.

Williams NLR(1), Siboni N(2), Potts J(3), Scanes P(3), Johnson C(3), James M(4), 
McCann V(4), Reun NL(2), King WL(5), Seymour JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, USA. 
Electronic address: nathanwilliams22@gmail.com.
(2)Climate Change Cluster, Faculty of Science, University of Technology Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(3)Waters, Wetlands, Coasts Science Branch, NSW Department of Primary and 
Environment, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia.
(4)Central Coast Council, Hely Street Wyong, NSW, Australia.
(5)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, Southampton, SO17 
1BJ, UK.

Intermittently closed and opened lakes and lagoons (ICOLLs) provide important 
ecosystem services, including food provision and nutrient cycling. These 
ecosystems generally experience low watershed outflow, resulting in substantial 
fluctuations in physicochemical parameters that are often compounded by 
anthropogenic contamination, however, how this impacts the patterns in 
microbiology within these environments remains uncharacterised. Therefore, we 
aimed to determine how seasonal heterogeneity in the physicochemical parameters, 
in comparison to faecal contamination, alter the dynamics of bacterial 
communities inhabiting ICOLLs on the eastern Australian coast. To address these 
aims, we sampled four ICOLLs on a monthly basis for one year, using 16S rRNA 
gene amplicon sequencing to monitor patterns in bacterial diversity and 
qPCR-based methods to measure faecal contamination from humans (sewage), dogs, 
and birds. Additionally, we used qPCR to monitor patterns of a suite of 
antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) including sulI, tetA, qnrS, dfrA1, and vanB. 
Differences in bacterial community composition were often associated with 
temporal shifts in salinity, temperature, pH, dissolved oxygen, and dissolved 
organic matter, but following periods of high rainfall, bacterial assemblages in 
two of four ICOLLs changed in direct response to sewage inputs. Within these 
ICOLLs, indicator taxa for stormwater identified using the 16S rRNA amplicon 
sequencing data, as well as markers for sewage and dog faeces, and levels of the 
antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) sulI, tetA, and dfrA1 were significantly more 
abundant after rainfall. Notably many of the stormwater indicator taxa were 
potential human pathogens including Arcobacter and Aeromonas hydrophilia, which 
also displayed significant correlations, albeit weak to moderate, with levels of 
the ARGs sulI, tetA, and dfrA1. This broad-scale shift in the nature of the 
bacterial community following rainfall will likely lead to a substantial, and 
perhaps detrimental, divergence in the ecosystem services provided by the 
bacterial assemblages within these ICOLLs. We conclude that following rainfall 
events, sewage was a principal driver of shifts in the microbiology of ICOLLs 
exposed to stormwater, while natural seasonal shifts in the physicochemical 
parameters controlled bacterial communities at other times. Increased occurrence 
of intense precipitation events is predicted as a ramification of climate 
change, which will lead to increased impacts of stormwater and sewage 
contamination on important ICOLL ecosystems in the future.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2024.122670
PMID: 39486150

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There were no 
conflicts of interest to state.

1. Biochem Pharmacol. 2024 Oct 29;230(Pt 2):116596. doi:
10.1016/j.bcp.2024.116596.  Online ahead of print.

Insights into the modulatory effects of host-gut microbial xanthine 
co-metabolism on high-fat diet-fed mice.

Chen WB(1), Hu GA(1), Dong BC(1), Sun HY(1), Lu DZ(1), Ru MY(1), Yu YL(1), Wang 
H(2), Wei B(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Science & Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Yangtze River Delta Region Green Pharmaceuticals, Key Laboratory of Marine 
Fishery Resources Exploitment & Utilization of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang 
University of Technology, Hangzhou 310014, China.
(2)College of Pharmaceutical Science & Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Yangtze River Delta Region Green Pharmaceuticals, Key Laboratory of Marine 
Fishery Resources Exploitment & Utilization of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang 
University of Technology, Hangzhou 310014, China; Binjiang Institute of 
Artificial Intelligence, ZJUT, Hangzhou 310056, China. Electronic address: 
hongw@zjut.edu.cn.
(3)College of Pharmaceutical Science & Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Yangtze River Delta Region Green Pharmaceuticals, Key Laboratory of Marine 
Fishery Resources Exploitment & Utilization of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang 
University of Technology, Hangzhou 310014, China; Binjiang Institute of 
Artificial Intelligence, ZJUT, Hangzhou 310056, China. Electronic address: 
binwei@zjut.edu.cn.

Gut microbiota-mediated endobiotic and xenobiotic metabolism play crucial roles 
in disease progression, and drug therapy/toxicity. Our recent study suggested 
that gut microbiota-mediated xanthine metabolism is correlated with resistance 
to high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity. Here, we explored the role of host-gut 
microbial xanthine co-metabolism in the prevention and treatment of HFD-induced 
obesity by orally administration of Bifidobacterium longum, xanthine, and a 
xanthine oxidase inhibitor (topiroxostat). The findings indicate that xanthine 
exhibits a significantly protective effect against HFD-induced obesity. While B. 
longum, xanthine, and topiroxostat did not alleviate the dysbiosis of the weight 
and glucose metabolism of HFD-induced obesity (DIO) and obesity resistance (DIR) 
mice. 16S rRNA sequencing analyses revealed that treatments with B. longum 
significantly altered gut microbiota composition in HFD-fed and DIO mice. 
Microbial interaction network analysis revealed several Bacteroidetes species, 
such as Amulumruptor caecigallinarius and Muribaculum intestinale, as keystone 
taxa that were notably enriched by B. longum. Untargeted metabolomics analysis 
implied that xanthine might serve as a crucial molecule in regulating body 
weight, exerting a preventive effect on HFD-induced obesity. This study offers 
new perspectives on the influence of host-gut microbial xanthine co-metabolism 
on HFD-fed mice and emphasizes the promising role of xanthine in promoting 
weight loss.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2024.116596
PMID: 39481656

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Food Sci Nutr. 2024 Aug 16;12(10):7924-7937. doi: 10.1002/fsn3.4411.
eCollection  2024 Oct.

Eco-friendly biodegradable film based on kombucha mushroom/corn starch/parsley 
extract: Physicochemical and antioxidant/antibacterial properties.

Shiri Z(1), Pirsa S(2), Farzi J(1).

Author information:
(1)Afagh Higher Education Institute of Urmia Urmia Iran.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture Urmia 
University Urmia Iran.

The main purpose of this study was to produce biodegradable film based on 
kombucha mushroom (KM), so kombucha mushroom was grown and used to prepare 
biodegradable film. Glycerol (Gl), corn starch (St), and parsley extract (PE) 
were used to improve the characteristics of the kombucha mushroom-based film. 
The physicochemical, thermal, and antibacterial properties of the films were 
investigated using different techniques. The obtained results showed that starch 
significantly increased the tensile strength of the film (3 Mpa) and glycerol 
improved the flexibility of the film (70%). Starch increased the film's 
resistance to dissolution in water, and parsley extract and starch improved 
water vapor permeability. The pure film of kombucha mushroom had good 
antioxidant (40% ± 2%) and antibacterial properties, and parsley extract 
significantly increased these properties of the film, so that the prepared film 
can be considered as an active film. Starch had no significant effect on 
antioxidant and antibacterial properties. The pure kombucha mushroom film had 
cracks on the surface, and the addition of starch removed these cracks and made 
the structure of the film more homogeneous. Electrostatic interactions between 
kombucha mushroom, glycerol, starch, and parsley extract were confirmed by 
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) results. The pure film of 
kombucha mushroom was a completely amorphous film, which glycerol, parsley 
extract, and starch improved the crystallinity of the film. Glycerol and parsley 
extract decreased the thermal resistance of the film, but starch increased this 
property significantly (about 40°C), so that the kombucha 
mushroom/glycerol/starch/parsley extract composite film had the highest thermal 
resistance. In addition to having acceptable mechanical, thermal, and structural 
properties, the film based on kombucha mushroom can be used as an active film in 
the packaging of food products sensitive to microbial and oxidative spoilage due 
to having suitable antioxidant and antimicrobial properties.

© 2024 The Author(s). Food Science & Nutrition published by Wiley Periodicals 
LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/fsn3.4411
PMCID: PMC11521688
PMID: 39479647

Conflict of interest statement: There is no conflict of interest among authors.

1. Microb Pathog. 2024 Dec;197:107089. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107089. Epub 
2024 Oct 29.

Inhibition of Candida albicans virulence by moscatin from Dendrobium nobile 
lindl.

Wang B(1), Tan H(2), Sun X(1), Lin Z(2), Chen X(2), Han H(1), Wang M(2), Wang 
Z(3), Chen X(4), Deng Y(5), Song S(6).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences (Shenzhen), Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen 518107, China.
(3)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences (Shenzhen), Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen 518107, China; Hunan Children's 
Hospital, Changsha 410007, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China. 
Electronic address: cxiangxiu@hainanu.edu.cn.
(5)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences (Shenzhen), Shenzhen Campus of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Sun Yat-sen University, Shenzhen 518107, China. Electronic address: 
dengyle@mail.sysu.edu.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Tropical Biological Resources of Ministry of Education, 
School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hainan University, Haikou 570228, China. 
Electronic address: songsh@hainanu.edu.cn.

Candida albicans infection poses a significant global health threat. It is 
imperative to exploit new antifungal agents against C. albicans infections 
without leading to drug resistance, so that these potential agents can 
complement or combine with current medications to effectively treat diseases 
caused by C. albicans. We screened moscatin, and assessed the inhibitory 
effectiveness against C. albicans SC5314 on hyphae production and biofilm 
formation. It was revealed that moscatin exhibited significant effects on 
morphological transition and biofilm formation in C. albicans SC5314. It also 
lowered the pathogenicity of C. albicans SC5314 in a concentration-dependent way 
in both A549 cells and mice fungal infection models, but had no cytotoxicity to 
A549 cells. In addition, moscatin attenuated the virulence of clinical 
fluconazole-resistant C. albicans and exhibited synergistic activity with 
fluconazole. It could also restore the composition and richness of the 
intestinal microbiota in mice infected by C. albicans. These findings indicate 
that these moscatin has great potential to be developed as a new therapeutic 
drug against C. albicans infection.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107089
PMID: 39477034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Nanoscale. 2024 Nov 28;16(46):21360-21378. doi: 10.1039/d4nr02613f.

Single-use polyethylene terephthalate bottle-derived nanoplastics propagate 
antibiotic resistance in bacteria via transformation and outer membrane vesicle 
secretion.

Sharma P(1), Kishore A(1)(2), Singh M(1).

Author information:
(1)Chemical Biology Unit, Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), 
Knowledge City, Sector-81, Mohali, 140306, Punjab, India. manish@inst.ac.in.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Chandigarh College of Technology, CGC, Landran, 
140307, Punjab, India.

Plastic pollution arising from single-use plastic bottles (SUPBs) and containers 
leads to the formation of micro/nanoplastics (NPs). These NPs raise concerns due 
to their potential toxicity and interactions with microorganisms. In various 
environments, including our digestive system, both microorganisms and plastics 
coexist. The interactions between these NPs and microorganisms can have 
far-reaching consequences, potentially affecting the ecosystems and human 
health. Therefore, understanding these interactions is crucial for addressing 
the challenges posed by plastic pollution. This study investigated the role of 
NPs in propagating antibiotic resistance (AR), specifically through outer 
membrane vesicles (OMVs), which is a mechanism that has not been fully explored 
to date in terms of NPs' effects. To explore this, NPs were synthesized using 
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) SUPBs, mimicking the natural chemical 
composition of environmental nanoplastics, unlike previous studies, which used 
pure PET, polystyrene (PS) or other pure plastic materials. The resulting PET 
bottle-derived nanoplastics (PBNPs), which exhibited diverse shapes and sizes 
(50-850 nm), were found to facilitate horizontal gene transfer (HGT) through 
transformation and outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), enabling the transport of 
plasmids among bacteria. In transformation, PBNPs physically carried plasmids 
across the bacterial membrane. In another scenario, PBNPs induced oxidative 
stress and bacterial surface damage, which led to the upregulation of stress 
response-associated genes and the escalation of OMV secretion in E. coli. This 
novel pathway highlights how PBNPs contribute to AR gene dissemination, 
potentially exacerbating the global antibiotic resistance crisis. Furthermore, 
PBNPs mediate cross-species gene transfer from E. coli to Lactobacillus 
acidophilus, underscoring their impact on diverse microorganisms, including 
those in the human gut. Our findings suggest that nanoplastics may be an 
unrecognized contributor to the rising tide of antibiotic resistance, with 
significant consequences for human health and the environment. Molecular 
analyses revealed the upregulated expression of genes associated with stress 
response and OMV secretion, offering deeper insights into the biological 
mechanisms affected by PBNPs. This study offers crucial insights into the 
interactions of NPs and microorganisms for developing strategies to address the 
ecological and health implications of nanoplastic contamination.

DOI: 10.1039/d4nr02613f
PMID: 39474943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. mSphere. 2024 Nov 21;9(11):e0071824. doi: 10.1128/msphere.00718-24. Epub 2024 
Oct 29.

Mice colonized with the defined microbial community OMM19.1 are susceptible to 
Clostridioides difficile infection without prior antibiotic treatment.

Chua M(1)(2), Collins J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology & Immunology, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, Kentucky, USA.
(2)Center for Predictive Medicine, University of Louisville, Louisville, 
Kentucky, USA.
(3)Center for Microbiomics, Inflammation and Pathogenicity, University of 
Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Aug 27:2024.08.27.609948. doi: 10.1101/2024.08.27.609948.

Diverse gut microorganisms present in humans and mice are essential for the 
prevention of microbial pathogen colonization. However, antibiotic-induced 
dysbiosis of the gut microbiome reduces microbial diversity and allows 
Clostridioides difficile (C. difficile) to colonize the intestine. The 
Oligo-Mouse-Microbiota 19.1 (OMM19.1) is a synthetic community that consists of 
bacteria that are taxonomically and functionally designed to mimic the specific 
pathogen-free mouse gut microbiota. Here, we examined the susceptibility of 
OMM19.1 colonized mice to C. difficile infection (CDI) at a range of infectious 
doses (103, 105, and 107 spores) without prior antibiotic treatment. We found 
that mice colonized with OMM19.1 were susceptible to CDI regardless of the dose. 
The clinical scores increased with increasing C. difficile dosage. Infection 
with C. difficile was correlated with a significant increase in 
Ligilactobacillus murinus and Escherichia coli, while the relative abundance of 
Bacteroides caecimuris, Akkermansia muciniphila, Extibacter muris, and 
Turicimonas muris was significantly decreased following CDI. Our results 
demonstrate that the OMM19.1 community requires additional bacteria to enable C. 
difficile colonization resistance.IMPORTANCEThe human gut microbiota consists of 
a wide range of microorganisms whose composition and function vary according to 
their location and have a significant impact on health and disease. The ability 
to generate and test the defined microbiota within gnotobiotic animal models is 
essential for determining the mechanisms responsible for colonization 
resistance. The exact mechanism(s) by which healthy microbiota prevents 
Clostridioides difficile infection is unknown, although competition for 
nutrients, active antagonism, production of inhibitory metabolites (such as 
secondary bile acids), and microbial manipulation of the immune system are all 
thought to play a role. Here, we colonized germ-free C57BL/6 mice with a 
synthetic bacterial community (OMM19.1) that mimics the specific pathogen-free 
mouse microbiota. Following breeding, to enable immune system development, F1 
mice were infected with three different doses of C. difficile. Our research 
suggests that there are additional essential microbial functions that are absent 
from the current OMM19.1 model.

DOI: 10.1128/msphere.00718-24
PMCID: PMC11580463
PMID: 39470217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

1. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2024 Oct 25;40(10):3750-3764. doi: 
10.13345/j.cjb.230743.

[Evaluation of antibiotics resistance and transmission risk of Escherichia coli 
in rice-frog coculture system].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang Y(1), Dong Q(2), Qing N(3), Qian M(1), Guo B(1), He J(1), Li Y(1), Han 
J(1), Qu D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Food Science and Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, 
Hangzhou 310018, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Hangzhou Seed Farm, Hangzhou 311100, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Hangzhou Agricultural Technology Extension Center, Hangzhou 310016, Zhejiang, 
China.

In order to assess the antibiotic resistance of Escherichia coli and its 
transmission risk in a rice-frog coculture system in Zhejiang Province, this 
study collected E. coli from isolated soil, field water, and frog feces from the 
rice-frog coculture systems in four different areas of Zhejiang Province. The 
collected isolates were identified by 16S rRNA sequencing, while their 
antibiotic-resistant phenotypes were determined by Kirby-Bauer (K-B) method. PCR 
was used to identify the antibiotic-resistant genotypes and integrons, while 
conjugative transfer experiments were used to assess resistance transmission 
characteristics. The results showed a high prevalence of antibiotic resistance 
in the 82 strains of E. coli tested, primarily against tetracycline, 
sulfisoxazole, amoxicillin, and erythromycin. Most of these strains exhibited 
multidrug resistance, with the Fuyang area demonstrating the highest resistance 
rate compared to the other three areas. Further PCR analysis identified the sul1 
gene as the most frequently detected resistance gene (63.41%), followed by 
blaTEM, tetA, and tetB. Among the 16 antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) 
detected, the Fuyang isolates consistencly exhibited higher detection rate of 9 
ARGs in comparison to the other regions. Additionally, the integrase gene intI1 
displayed the highest detection rate, with 14 strains (34.15%) of 
integrase-positive bacteria carrying gene cassettes. Four different gene 
cassette compositions were observed, with dfrA1-aadA1 and dfrA17-aadA5 being the 
most common combinations. Conjugative transfer experiments demonstrated 
successful transfer of gene cassettes in 4 out of 14 donor bacteria, with 
conjugation transfer frequencies ranging from 4.32×10-5 to 7.13×10-4. These 
findings revealed the severity of resistance in the Fuyang area among the four 
regions. Integrons play a significant role in mediating the resistance to 
multiple antibiotics in E. coli, facilitating the potential spread of resistance 
gene cassettes between different bacteria. Overall, this study provides valuable 
insights into the resistance status and transmission characteristics of E. coli 
in the rice-frog coculture system in Zhejiang Province, providing a theoretical 
basis for ensuring the food safety of rice crops.

DOI: 10.13345/j.cjb.230743
PMID: 39467762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2024 Nov;31(54):62930-62949. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-024-35293-4. Epub 2024 Oct 28.

Adsorption of amoxicillin by chitosan and alginate biopolymers composite beads.

Pinheiro CP(1), Tokura BK(1), Germano NS(1), de Moraes MA(2), Bresolin ITL(3).

Author information:
(1)Chemical Engineering Department, Federal University of São Paulo - UNIFESP, 
Rua São Nicolau, 210, Diadema, SP, 09913-030, Brazil.
(2)Department of Materials and Bioprocess Engineering, School of Chemical 
Engineering, University of Campinas - UNICAMP, Av. Albert Einstein, 500, 
Campinas, SP, 13083-852, Brazil.
(3)Chemical Engineering Department, Federal University of São Paulo - UNIFESP, 
Rua São Nicolau, 210, Diadema, SP, 09913-030, Brazil. bresolin@unifesp.br.

Due to its widespread use and incomplete breakdown in the human body, 
amoxicillin has been detected in receiving water bodies. This raises significant 
concerns, like the promotion of antibiotic resistance, toxicity towards aquatic 
life, disruption of the natural balance of microbial communities within these 
water bodies, and the struggle of effectively removal by the traditional 
wastewater treatment plants. Consequently, exploring new processes to complement 
the existing methods is crucial. Adsorption, a promising highly efficient, 
selective, and versatile technique, can effectively remove contaminants, making 
it useful in various industries such as water treatment, pharmaceuticals, and 
environmental remediation. Several adsorbents are documented in the literature 
for drug adsorption; however, their fabrication often involves more complex 
steps and substances compared to chitosan and alginate, which are natural 
polymers that are biocompatible, non-toxic, and biodegradable. Their tunable 
properties and ease of modification enhance their efficacy in environmental 
remediation. Therefore, the novelty of this article is to understand the 
interaction of amoxicillin with chitosan and alginate adsorbents easily 
synthetized using the dripping technique. This approach allows us to explore 
basic principles that can be applied to more complex systems in future studies. 
The optimal pH for both beads was found to be 4, with adsorption capacities of 
74.2 ± 0.3 mg g-1 for alginate and 80.4 ± 0.2 mg g-1 for chitosan, using 1 g of 
adsorbent. Kinetics studies indicated that external diffusion governs adsorption 
for alginate, while internal diffusion governs adsorption for chitosan. This 
approach underscores the potential of chitosan and alginate beads as effective 
adsorbents for mitigating antibiotic contamination in water systems, offering a 
sustainable complement to traditional treatment methods.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-024-35293-4
PMID: 39466532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: Not applicable. 
Consent to participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 17;25(20):11157. doi: 10.3390/ijms252011157.

Differential Urinary Microbiome and Its Metabolic Footprint in Bladder Cancer 
Patients Following BCG Treatment.

Min K(1), Zheng CM(2), Kim S(1), Kim H(1), Lee M(1), Piao XM(2), Byun YJ(2), Kim 
Y(1), Joo Y(1), Cho B(1), Moon S(3)(4), Kim WT(2)(3), Kang HW(2)(3), Park 
H(1)(5), Yun SJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science and Engineering, Gwangju Institute of 
Science and Technology, Gwangju 61005, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Urology, Chungbuk National University College of Medicine, 
Cheongju 28644, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Urology, Chungbuk National University Hospital, Cheongju 28644, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Convergence of Medical Science, Chungbuk National University 
College of Medicine, Cheongju 28644, Republic of Korea.
(5)Genome and Company, Seongnam 13486, Republic of Korea.

Recent studies have identified a urinary microbiome, dispelling the myth of 
urine sterility. Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) therapy is the 
preferred treatment for intermediate to high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder 
cancer (BCa), although resistance occurs in 30-50% of cases. Progression to 
muscle-invasive cancer necessitates radical cystectomy. Our research uses 16S 
rRNA gene sequencing to investigate how the urinary microbiome influences BCa 
and its response to BCG therapy. Urine samples were collected via urethral 
catheterization from patients with benign conditions and non-muscle-invasive 
BCa, all of whom underwent BCG therapy. We utilized 16S rRNA gene sequencing to 
analyze the bacterial profiles and metabolic pathways in these samples. These 
pathways were validated using a real metabolite dataset, and we developed 
predictive models for malignancy and BCG response. In this study, 87 patients 
participated, including 29 with benign diseases and 58 with BCa. We noted 
distinct bacterial compositions between benign and malignant samples, indicating 
the potential role of the toluene degradation pathway in mitigating BCa 
development. Responders to BCG had differing microbial compositions and higher 
quinolone synthesis than non-responders, with two Bifidobacterium species being 
prevalent among responders, associated with prolonged recurrence-free survival. 
Additionally, we developed highly accurate predictive models for malignancy and 
BCG response. Our study delved into the mechanisms behind malignancy and BCG 
responses by focusing on the urinary microbiome and metabolic pathways. We 
pinpointed specific beneficial microbes and developed clinical models to predict 
malignancy and BCG therapy outcomes. These models can track recurrence and 
facilitate early predictions of treatment responses.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms252011157
PMCID: PMC11508893
PMID: 39456941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Hansoo Park was employed by Genome and 
Company. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 1;286:117204. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117204. Epub 2024 Oct 24.

Assessing the pig microbial health impacts of smallholder farming.

Wen R(1), Yang M(1), Xu Q(1), Xu W(1), Zhou Q(1), Ma B(1), Lin X(1), Lei C(1), 
Wang H(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Bio-Resource and Eco-Environment of Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China; Animal 
Disease Prevention and Food Safety Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Bio-Resource and Eco-Environment of Ministry of Education, 
College of Life Sciences, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China; Animal 
Disease Prevention and Food Safety Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, China. 
Electronic address: whongning@163.com.

The livestock industry has long been a hotspot environment for antibiotic 
resistance genes, with smallholder farming still holding a significant position 
in pig farming. However, the microbial antibiotic resistance and pathogen risks 
in pigs under the smallholder farming model remain unclear. We systematically 
analyzed the antibiotic resistance and microbial composition of pig feces from 
smallholder and large-scale farming models in Sichuan. The results indicated a 
lower abundance of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and similar microbial 
composition in smallholder farming compared to large-scale farming. Beneficial 
bacteria were more abundant in small-scale farming, whereas large-scale farming 
exhibited more ARGs, virulence genes, and human pathogenic bacteria (HPBs), 
including ESBL Escherichia coli strains closely related to human strains, 
indicating higher zoonotic risk. The findings suggest that smallholder farming 
presents a relatively better microbial composition and resistance profile, 
highlighting its advantages over large-scale farming in terms of pig and human 
health. It is noteworthy that a considerable proportion of HPBs carrying ARGs 
still exist in the feces from smallholder farming, and given the openness of 
fecal handling, there remains a high risk of transmitting ARGs and pathogens to 
humans.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117204
PMID: 39454358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Nov 6;16(44):60018-60026. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c14689. Epub 2024 Oct 25.

Developing a High-Throughput Platform for the Discovery of Sustainable 
Antibacterial Materials.

Wieczerzak K(1), Klimashin FF(1), Sharma A(1), Altenried S(2), Maniura-Weber 
K(2), Ren Q(2), Michler J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Mechanics of Materials and Nanostructures, Empa, Swiss Federal 
Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology, CH-3602 Thun, Switzerland.
(2)Laboratory for Biointerfaces, Empa, Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials 
Science and Technology, Lerchenfeldstrasse 5, CH-9014 St. Gallen, Switzerland.

Healthcare-associated infections (HCAIs) pose a significant global health 
challenge, exacerbated by the rising threat of antimicrobial resistance (AMR). 
This study introduces a high-throughput platform designed to identify 
sustainable antibacterial surfaces, exemplified by a copper-silver-zirconium 
(CuAgZr) alloy library. Utilizing combinatorial synthesis and advanced 
characterization techniques, material libraries (MatLibs) are generated and 
evaluated to rapidly screen diverse alloy compositions. The results demonstrate 
the ability to reproducibly create alloys with significant antimicrobial 
properties and high hardness, making them suitable for biomedical applications. 
The study highlights the critical role of compositional precision in developing 
materials that balance mechanical strength with antibacterial efficacy. 
Additionally, this approach ensures significant cost-effectiveness, facilitating 
the identification of economically viable alloy compositions. This research 
underscores the potential of high-throughput materials science to expedite the 
discovery of sustainable solutions for reducing HCAIs and addressing AMR, 
signaling a leap forward in sustainable healthcare material development.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c14689
PMCID: PMC11551899
PMID: 39453916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.

1. Environ Res. 2024 Dec 15;263(Pt 3):120220. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120220. 
Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Captivity increased the abundance of high-risk antibiotic resistance genes in 
the giant panda gut microbiome.

Cai TG(1), Zhang JD(2), Lu L(3), Wang YF(4), Zhu D(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Southwest China Wildlife Resources Conservation, China West 
Normal University, Ministry of Education, Nanchong, Sichuan Province 637009, 
China; College of Resources and Environment, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan 430070, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Southwest China Wildlife Resources Conservation, China West 
Normal University, Ministry of Education, Nanchong, Sichuan Province 637009, 
China. Electronic address: zhangjd224@cwnu.edu.cn.
(3)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, China West Normal 
University, Nanchong 637009, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Ningbo Urban Environment 
Observation and Research Station, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Urban 
Environmental Processes and Pollution Control, CAS Haixi Industrial Technology 
Innovation Center in Beilun, Ningbo 315830, China. Electronic address: 
yfwang@iue.ac.cn.
(5)Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, Ningbo Urban Environment 
Observation and Research Station, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, China; Zhejiang Key Laboratory of Urban 
Environmental Processes and Pollution Control, CAS Haixi Industrial Technology 
Innovation Center in Beilun, Ningbo 315830, China.

Captivity is a key strategy for protecting endangered species, but research has 
primarily focused on artificial breeding and reintroduction to bolster wild 
populations, often overlooking the environmental and health risks associated 
with antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). Here, we conducted a comprehensive 
analysis of the microbiome and ARG profiles in the gut of wild giant pandas 
across five representative populations, as well as one captive population, 
utilizing 16S rRNA gene sequencing and High-Throughput Quantitative PCR. Our 
findings revealed that both geographic location and captivity significantly 
influenced the gut microbial community and ARG composition in the gut of giant 
pandas. Additionally, we identified core microbiomes with essential ecological 
functions, particularly those related to food utilization, were identified in 
the giant panda gut across different regions. The gut ARGs in giant pandas 
exhibited a broad range of subtypes, with multidrug resistance genes being the 
most prevalent. Notably, the captive population harbored the highest abundance 
of high-risk ARGs, especially those conferring tetracycline resistance. 
High-risk multidrug ARGs (e.g., tolC, mepA, and mdtA) were found to be strongly 
correlated with the potential pathogens, such as Escherichia_Shigellina and 
Pseudomonas. Furthermore, bamboo-associated ARGs and mobile genetic elements 
(MGEs) contributed significantly to the ARG abundance in the giant panda gut, 
indicating that diet plays a crucial role in shaping gut resistome. 
Collectively, our study provides a detailed mapping of giant panda gut 
microbiomes and ARG distribution, offering valuable insights for conservation 
efforts and advancing our understanding of ARG dynamics in giant panda 
populations.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120220
PMID: 39448015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Mech Ageing Dev. 2024 Oct 22;222:111998. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2024.111998.
Online  ahead of print.

Challenges of infectious diseases in older adults: From immunosenescence and 
inflammaging through antibiotic resistance to management strategies.

Mancinetti F(1), Marinelli A(2), Boccardi V(3), Mecocci P(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Perugia-Santa Maria della Misericordia Hospital, Perugia, Italy.
(2)Clinical of Internal Medicine, Department of Medical Surgical and Health 
Science, University of Trieste, Cattinara Hospital, Trieste, Italy.
(3)Division of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Perugia-Santa Maria della Misericordia Hospital, Perugia, Italy. 
Electronic address: virginia.boccardi@unipg.it.
(4)Division of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Perugia-Santa Maria della Misericordia Hospital, Perugia, Italy; 
Division of Clinical Geriatrics, NVS Department, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.

Infectious diseases in older adults present a significant challenge to the 
healthcare system, marked by increased morbidity, mortality, and rising costs of 
care. Age-related changes (ARCs) in the immune system, including 
immunosenescence and inflammaging, contribute to heightened susceptibility to 
severe infections and reduced vaccine responsiveness. Additionally, alterations 
in the normal microbial flora due to aging and factors such as antibiotic 
therapy predispose older individuals to infections and age-related diseases. 
Changes in body composition also affect the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics of drugs, complicating the management of antibiotics and 
leading to potential overdoses, adverse drug reactions, or underdoses that 
foster antibiotic resistance. The inappropriate use of antibiotics has 
exacerbated the emergence of multidrug-resistant pathogens, posing a critical 
global concern. This narrative review provides an overview of immunosenescence 
and inflammaging and focuses on three major infectious diseases affecting older 
adults: bacterial pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and Clostridium difficile 
infections. Through this exploration, we aim to highlight the need for targeted 
approaches in managing infectious diseases in the aging population.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2024.111998
PMID: 39447983

1. PLoS One. 2024 Oct 24;19(10):e0312200. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312200. 
eCollection 2024.

The oral pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis gains tolerance to the antimicrobial 
peptide DGL13K by synonymous mutations in hagA.

Gorr SU(1), Chen R(1), Abrahante JE(2), Joyce PBM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Biological Sciences, University of Minnesota 
School of Dentistry, Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States of America.
(2)University of Minnesota Informatics Institute, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States of America.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Centre for Structural and 
Functional Genomics, Concordia University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.

Porphyromonas gingivalis is a keystone pathogen for periodontal disease. The 
bacteria are black-pigmented and require heme for growth. P. gingivalis exhibit 
resistance to many antimicrobial peptides, which contributes to their success in 
the oral cavity. P. gingivalis W50 was resistant to the antimicrobial peptide 
LGL13K but susceptible to the all-D-amino acid stereoisomer, DGL13K. Upon 
prolonged exposure to DGL13K, a novel non-pigmented mutant was isolated. 
Exposure to the L-isomer, LGL13K, did not produce a non-pigmented mutant. The 
goal of this study was to characterize the genomic and cellular changes that led 
to the non-pigmented phenotype upon treatment with DGL13K. The non-pigmented 
mutant showed a low minimum inhibitory concentration and two-fold extended 
minimum duration for killing by DGL13K, consistent with tolerance to this 
peptide. The DGL13K-tolerant bacteria exhibited synonymous mutations in the hagA 
gene. The mutations did not prevent mRNA expression but were predicted to alter 
mRNA structure. The non-pigmented bacteria were deficient in hemagglutination 
and hemoglobin binding, suggesting that the HagA protein was not expressed. This 
was supported by whole cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and gingipain 
activity assays, which suggested the absence of HagA but not of two closely 
related gingipains. In vivo virulence was similar for wild type and 
non-pigmented bacteria in the Galleria mellonella model. The results suggest 
that, unlike LGL13K, DGL13K can defeat multiple bacterial resistance mechanisms 
but bacteria can gain tolerance to DGL13K through mutations in the hagA gene.

Copyright: © 2024 Gorr et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0312200
PMCID: PMC11500903
PMID: 39446776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SUG holds three patents related to the research 
reported in this manuscript: Synthetic peptides and peptide mimetics. U.S. 
Patent number: US9914750. Date of Patent: March 13, 2018. Assignee: University 
of Louisville Research Foundation Inventor: Sven-Ulrik Gorr. Synthetic peptides 
and peptide mimetics. U.S. Patent number: US8569449, Date of Patent: October 29, 
2013, Assignee: University of Louisville Research Foundation. Inventor: 
Sven-Ulrik Gorr. Peptides, hydrogel compositions and methods of use thereof. 
U.S. Patent number: US12037374. Date of Patent: July 16, 2024, Assignee: Regents 
of the University of Minnesota. Inventors: S.-U. Gorr, C. Aparicio and Z. Ye. 
SUG is Chief Scientific Officer and holds equity in Gavia BIO, LLC, which is 
developing the antimicrobial peptide DGL13K. These interests have been reviewed 
and managed by the University of Minnesota in accordance wit its Conflict of 
interest policies. The other authors declare no commercial funding, employment, 
consultancy, or commercial products in development related to these patents. 
This does not alter our adherence to PLoS ONE policies on sharing data. Mutant 
strains of P. gingivalis, developed in this research, are available from the 
University of Minnesota upon completion of a Materials Transfer Agreement

1. Curr Protoc. 2024 Oct;4(10):e70031. doi: 10.1002/cpz1.70031.

The TELCoMB Protocol for High-Sensitivity Detection of ARG-MGE Colocalizations 
in Complex Microbial Communities.

Bravo JE(1), Slizovskiy I(2)(3), Bonin N(4), Oliva M(1), Noyes N(5), Boucher 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer and Information Science and Engineering, Herbert 
Wertheim College of Engineering, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida.
(2)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.
(3)Purdue Applied Microbiome Sciences Program, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, Indiana.
(4)Department of Computer Science, College of Engineering, University of 
Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(5)Department of Veterinary Population Medicine, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul, Minnesota.

Understanding the genetic basis of antimicrobial resistance is crucial for 
developing effective mitigation strategies. One necessary step is to identify 
the antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs) within a microbial population, 
referred to as the resistome, as well as the mobile genetic elements (MGEs) 
harboring ARGs. Although shotgun metagenomics has been successful in detecting 
ARGs and MGEs within a microbiome, it is limited by low sensitivity. Enrichment 
using cRNA biotinylated probes has been applied to address this limitation, 
enhancing the detection of rare ARGs and MGEs, especially when combined with 
long-read sequencing. Here, we present the TELCoMB protocol, a Snakemake 
workflow that elucidates resistome and mobilome composition and diversity and 
uncovers ARG-MGE colocalizations. The protocol supports both short- and 
long-read sequencing and does not require enrichment, making it versatile for 
various genomic data types. TELCoMB generates publication-ready figures and CSV 
files for comprehensive analysis, improving our understanding of antimicrobial 
resistance mechanisms and spread. © 2024 The Author(s). Current Protocols 
published by Wiley Periodicals LLC. Basic Protocol 1: Installing TELCOMB Locally 
Alternate Protocol: Installing TELCOMB on a SLURM Cluster Basic Protocol 2: Data 
Preprocessing Basic Protocol 3: Calculation of Resistome Distribution and 
Composition Basic Protocol 4: Identification of ARG-MGE Colocalizations.

© 2024 The Author(s). Current Protocols published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cpz1.70031
PMID: 39444361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. BMC Biol. 2024 Oct 23;22(1):240. doi: 10.1186/s12915-024-02035-4.

Seasonal stability of the rumen microbiome contributes to the adaptation 
patterns to extreme environmental conditions in grazing yak and cattle.

Guo W(1)(2)(3), Zhou M(2)(4), Li F(2)(5), Neves ALA(2)(6), Ma T(2)(7), Bi S(3), 
Wang W(1), Long R(8), Guan LL(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Plateau Mountain Animal Genetics, Breeding and 
Reproduction, Ministry of Education, College of Animal Science, Guizhou 
University, Guiyang, 550025, China.
(2)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2P5, Canada.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, International Centre of 
Tibetan Plateau Ecosystem Management, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(4)Faculty of Land and Food Systems, The University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(5)Department of Animal Science and Technology, College of Animal Sciences, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, China.
(6)Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Grønnegårdsvej 3, Frederiksberg C, 1870, 
Denmark.
(7)Key Laboratory of Feed Biotechnology of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural 
Affairs, Institute of Feed Research, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing, 100081, China.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Grassland Agro-Ecosystems, International Centre of 
Tibetan Plateau Ecosystem Management, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou 
University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. longrj@lzu.edu.cn.
(9)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2P5, Canada. leluo.guan@ubc.ca.
(10)Faculty of Land and Food Systems, The University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada. leluo.guan@ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: The rumen microbiome plays an essential role in maintaining 
ruminants' growth and performance even under extreme environmental conditions, 
however, which factors influence rumen microbiome stability when ruminants are 
reared in such habitats throughout the year is unclear. Hence, the rumen 
microbiome of yak (less domesticated) and cattle (domesticated) reared on the 
Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau through the year were assessed to evaluate temporal 
changes in their composition, function, and stability.
RESULTS: Rumen fermentation characteristics and pH significantly shifted across 
seasons in both cattle and yak, but the patterns differed between the two 
ruminant species. Ruminal enzyme activity varied with season, and production of 
xylanase and cellulase was greater in yak compared to cattle in both fall and 
winter. The rumen bacterial community varied with season in both yak and cattle, 
with higher alpha diversity and similarity (beta diversity) in yak than cattle. 
The diversity indices of eukaryotic community did not change with season in both 
ruminant species, but higher similarity was observed in yak. In addition, the 
similarity of rumen microbiome functional community was higher in yak than 
cattle across seasons. Moreover, yak rumen microbiome encoded more genes (GH2 
and GH3) related to cellulose and hemicellulose degradation compared to cattle, 
and a new enzyme family (GH160) gene involved in oligosaccharides was uniquely 
detected in yak rumen. The season affected microbiome attenuation and buffering 
values (stability), with higher buffering value in yak rumen microbiome than 
cattle. Positive correlations between antimicrobial resistance gene (dfrF) and 
CAZyme family (GH113) and microbiome stability were identified in yak, but such 
relationship was negatively correlated in cattle.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the potential of cellulose degradation, the 
relationship between rumen microbial stability and the abundance of functional 
genes varied differently across seasons and between yak and cattle provide 
insight into the mechanisms that may underpin their divergent adaptation 
patterns to the harsh climate of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. These results lay 
a solid foundation for developing strategies to maintain and improve rumen 
microbiome stability and dig out the potential candidates for manufacturing 
lignocellulolytic enzymes in the yak rumen to enhance ruminants' performance 
under extreme environmental conditions.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12915-024-02035-4
PMCID: PMC11515522
PMID: 39443951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 23;14(1):25100. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-74375-8.

Application of a metatranscriptomics technology, CSI-Dx, for the detection of 
pathogens associated with prosthetic joint infections.

Wright JR(1), Chen See JR(1), Ly TT(1), Tokarev V(1), Pellegrino J(1), Peachey 
L(1), Anderson SLC(1), Walls CY(1), Hosler M(1), Shope AJ(1), Gulati S(2), Toler 
KO(3), Lamendella R(4).

Author information:
(1)Contamination Source Identification, 419 14th St., Huntingdon, PA, 16652, 
USA.
(2)CD Laboratories, Zimmer Biomet, Towson, MD, 21286, USA.
(3)Department of Diagnostics Research and Development, Zimmer Biomet, Claymont, 
DE, 19703, USA.
(4)Contamination Source Identification, 419 14th St., Huntingdon, PA, 16652, 
USA. reginalamendella@csidx.com.

Preoperative identification of causal organism(s) is crucial for effective 
prosthetic joint infection treatment. Herein, we explore the clinical 
application of a novel metatranscriptomic (MT) workflow, CSI-Dx, to detect 
pathogens associated with prosthetic joint infection. MT provides insight into 
transcriptionally active microbes, overcoming limitations of culture-based and 
available molecular methods. This study included 340 human synovial fluid 
specimens subjected to CSI-Dx and traditional culture-based methods. Exploratory 
analyses were conducted to determine sensitivity and specificity of CSI-Dx for 
detecting clinically-relevant taxa. Our findings provide insights into the 
active microbial community composition of synovial fluid from arthroplasty 
patients and demonstrate the potential clinical utility of CSI-Dx for aiding 
prosthetic joint infection diagnosis. This approach offers potential for 
improved sensitivity and acceptable specificity compared to synovial fluid 
culture, enabling detection of culturable and non-culturable microorganisms. 
Furthermore, CSI-Dx provides valuable information on antimicrobial resistance 
gene expression. While further optimization is needed, integrating 
metatranscriptomic technologies like CSI-Dx into routine clinical practice can 
revolutionize prosthetic joint infection diagnosis by offering a comprehensive 
and active snapshot of associated pathogens.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-74375-8
PMCID: PMC11500344
PMID: 39443495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare a conflict of interest. JRW, 
JCS, TTL, VT, JP, LP, SLCA, CYW, MH, AJS, and RL, are employees of Contamination 
Source Identification, LLC. KOT and SG have no relevant conflicts of interest.

1. Biomater Sci. 2024 Nov 19;12(23):5912-5932. doi: 10.1039/d4bm01081g.

Advances in the study of metal-organic frameworks and their biomolecule 
composites for osteoporosis therapeutic applications.

Li J(1), Yin S(2), Zhou L(1), Nezamzadeh-Ejhieh A(3), Pan Y(1), Qiu L(4), Liu 
J(1), Zhou Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Dongguan Key Laboratory of Drug Design and Formulation Technology, Guangdong 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Research and Development of Natural Drugs, and 
School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Medical University, Guangdong Medical University 
Key Laboratory of Research and Development of New Medical Materials, Dongguan, 
523808, China. panying@gdmu.edu.cn.
(2)Hand Surgery Department, Liaobu Hospital, Dongguan, 523400, China.
(3)Chemistry department, Shahreza Branch, Islamic Azad University, Shahreza, 
Isfahan, I. R. Iran.
(4)Department of Traumatology and Orthopaedic Surgery, Orthopaedic Institute, 
Huizhou Municipal Central Hospital, Huizhou, 516001, China.

With the population aging, osteoporosis (OP) is becoming more and more common, 
seriously affecting patients' quality of life and their families, and how to 
prevent and treat osteoporosis has become a hot topic. However, the current 
conventional method of treating OP is oral anti-osteoporosis medication, which 
has drawbacks such as first-pass elimination and gastrointestinal adverse 
effects. At the same time, osteoporosis can lead to microbial infections and the 
need to promote angiogenesis for bone healing, among other needs that often 
cannot be met with conventional treatments, and there is a risk of resistance to 
oral antibiotics for microbial infections. Metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) 
having a high specific surface area, high porosity, controlled degradation, and 
variable composition; they can not only be used as a carrier to control drug 
release, but can also play multiple roles in the treatment of OP and microbial 
infections by releasing metal ions, etc., so they have inherent advantages for 
OP, which is a disease that requires long-term treatment. Therefore, this paper 
reviews the research progress of MOFs and their biomacromolecular composites in 
therapeutic applications for osteoporosis, categorized by MOF type, and briefly 
describes the mechanism of osteoporosis, and different synthesis methods of MOFs 
and MOF-based composites, and finally presents the main existing problems and 
future perspectives, aiming to make MOFs more helpful for OP treatment.

DOI: 10.1039/d4bm01081g
PMID: 39440387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. BMC Microbiol. 2024 Oct 22;24(1):426. doi: 10.1186/s12866-024-03575-z.

Whole genome sequence analysis of multi-drug resistant and biofilm-forming 
Staphylococcus haemolyticus isolated from bovine milk.

Ajose DJ(1)(2), Abolarinwa TO(3)(4), Oluwarinde BO(3)(4), Montso PK(5)(6), 
Fayemi OE(7), Aremu AO(8), Ateba CN(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Antimicrobial Resistance and Phage Biocontrol Research Group (AREPHABREG), 
Department of Microbiology, School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Natural 
and Agricultural Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 
2735, South Africa. ajosedj@yahoo.com.
(2)Food Security and Safety Focus Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 2735, South 
Africa. ajosedj@yahoo.com.
(3)Antimicrobial Resistance and Phage Biocontrol Research Group (AREPHABREG), 
Department of Microbiology, School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Natural 
and Agricultural Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 
2735, South Africa.
(4)Food Security and Safety Focus Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 2735, South 
Africa.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Stellenbosch University, 
Stellenbosch, 7600, South Africa.
(6)Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation, School for Data Science and 
Computational Thinking, Stellenbosch University, Stellenbosch, 7600, South 
Africa.
(7)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, 
North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 2735, South Africa.
(8)Indigenous Knowledge Systems (IKS) Centre, Faculty of Natural and 
Agricultural Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 2735, 
South Africa.
(9)Antimicrobial Resistance and Phage Biocontrol Research Group (AREPHABREG), 
Department of Microbiology, School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Natural 
and Agricultural Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 
2735, South Africa. collins.ateba@nwu.ac.za.
(10)Food Security and Safety Focus Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural 
Sciences, North-West University, Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho, 2735, South 
Africa. collins.ateba@nwu.ac.za.

BACKGROUND: Milk is an excellent growth medium for microorganisms due to its 
nutritive composition. Microorganisms have been implicated in bovine mastitis 
(BM) in dairy cows as well as causing infections in animals and humans. Despite 
extensive endeavours to manage BM, this condition continues to persist as the 
most prevalent and economically burdensome problem affecting dairy cattle on a 
global scale. Non-aureus staphylococci (NAS) species such as Staphylococcus 
haemolyticus, S. epidermidis, and S. xylosus are currently the predominant 
microbiological agents identified as the main cause of subclinical udder 
infections and are also considered opportunistic pathogens in cases of clinical 
mastitis in dairy cows. Therefore, it is crucial to elucidate the genetic 
profile of these species. The primary objective of this study was to 
characterise three phenotypically determined multidrug-resistant NAS 
environmental strains (NWU MKU1, NWU MKU2, and NWU MKS3) obtained from dairy 
cows milk via whole-genome sequencing.
RESULTS: The results confirmed that the three isolates were S. haemolyticus with 
genome sizes of 2.44, 2.56, and 2.56 Mb and a G + C content of 32.8%. The 
genomes contained an array of antibiotic resistance genes that may potentially 
confer resistance to a range of antibiotic classes, such as macrolides, 
fluoroquinolones, aminoglycosides, cephalosporins, tetracyclines, peptides, and 
phenicol. Furthermore, all the genomes carried virulence genes, which are 
responsible for several functions, such as adhesion, enzyme and toxin 
production. The genomes of these organisms contained signatures encoding mobile 
genetic elements such as prophages and insertion sequences.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate there is a need for diligent monitoring with 
improved management practices and quality control strategies on farms to 
safeguard milk production systems and human health.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-024-03575-z
PMCID: PMC11495027
PMID: 39438820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 22;14(1):24916. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-76679-1.

First Report on Salvia Sahendica Boiss & Buhs roots biocomponents 
characterization by GC-MS and HPLC and Antibacterial Potency.

Nourozi E(1), Hedayati A(2)(3)(4), Mirjalili MH(5), Madani H(6), Aliahmadi A(5), 
Zahedi AA(6), Aslani Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Academic Center for Education, Culture, and Research (ACECR), West Azarbayjan 
Branch, Urmia, Iran.
(2)Academic Center for Education, Culture, and Research (ACECR), West Azarbayjan 
Branch, Urmia, Iran. ahedayati67@yahoo.com.
(3)Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid Beheshti university, 
Tehran, Iran. ahedayati67@yahoo.com.
(4)Academic Center for Education, Culture, and Research (ACECR), West Azarbayjan 
Branch, P.O. Box: 165, Urmia, Iran. ahedayati67@yahoo.com.
(5)Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, Shahid Beheshti university, 
Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Horticulture, Faculty of Agriculture, Urmia University, Urmia, 
Iran.

Treatment of bacterial infections with antibiotic resistance is complicated. For 
this reason, new therapeutic methods are needed to control bacterial infections. 
Therefore, it is necessary to discover new antibiotics from medicinal plants 
that can destroy drug-resistant bacteria. Essential oils (EO) of some medicinal 
plants have antimicrobial effects and can be used as antimicrobial agents in the 
treatment of infections and food industries. The aim of this study was to 
determine the EO composition and antimicrobial effects of EO and polyphenols 
profile of Salvia Sahendica roots for the first time. Chemical compounds and 
antibacterial activity of EOs against Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus cereus 
as gram-positive and Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa as gram- 
negative bacteria were evaluated using microtiter broth dilution method. Studied 
organs of S. sahendica showed significant diversity in terms of type and 
percentage of essential oil and polyphenol compounds. Overall, 44, 46, 42, and 
45 compounds were identified in the essential oil of leaves, flowers, stems, and 
roots of this plant, which constituted 99.6, 99.3, 98.2, and 99.4% of total oil 
composition, respectively. The current study collectively demonstrated 
inhibitory effects ranged from strong (S. aureus) to low inhibition (P. 
aeruginosa). According to the HPLC result, the amounts of coumaric acid, 
chlorogenic acid, and gallic acid compounds in the root are higher than in other 
plant parts, which indicate that the root can be a suitable source for the 
production of these valuable polyphenol compounds. Due to the results, it is 
possible to hope for the application of EO from S. sahendica as natural 
antibacterial in the pharmaceutical and food industries.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-76679-1
PMCID: PMC11496801
PMID: 39438657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2024 Dec 1;327(6):C1433-C1450. doi: 
10.1152/ajpcell.00201.2024. Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Targeting the gut and tumor microbiome in cancer treatment resistance.

Ciernikova S(1), Sevcikova A(1), Mego M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Cancer Research Institute, Biomedical Research Center 
of the Slovak Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)2nd Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, Comenius University and 
National Cancer Institute, Bratislava, Slovakia.

Therapy resistance represents a significant challenge in oncology, occurring in 
various therapeutic approaches. Recently, animal models and an increasing set of 
clinical trials highlight the crucial impact of the gut and tumor microbiome on 
treatment response. The intestinal microbiome contributes to cancer initiation, 
progression, and formation of distant metastasis. In addition, tumor-associated 
microbiota is considered a critical player in influencing tumor 
microenvironments and regulating local immune processes. Intriguingly, numerous 
studies have successfully identified pathogens within the gut and tumor 
microbiome that might be linked to a poor response to different therapeutic 
modalities. The unfavorable microbial composition with the presence of specific 
microbes participates in cancer resistance and progression via several 
mechanisms, including upregulation of oncogenic pathways, macrophage 
polarization reprogramming, metabolism of chemotherapeutic compounds, autophagy 
pathway modulation, enhanced DNA damage repair, inactivation of a proapoptotic 
cascade, and bacterial secretion of extracellular vesicles, promoting the 
processes in the metastatic cascade. Targeted elimination of specific 
intratumoral bacteria appears to enhance treatment response. However, 
broad-spectrum antibiotic pretreatment is mostly connected to reduced efficacy 
due to gut dysbiosis and lower diversity. Mounting evidence supports the 
potential of microbiota modulation by probiotics and fecal microbiota 
transplantation to improve intestinal dysbiosis and increase microbial 
diversity, leading to enhanced treatment efficacy while mitigating adverse 
effects. In this context, further research concerning the identification of 
clinically relevant microbiome signatures followed by microbiota-targeted 
strategies presents a promising approach to overcoming immunotherapy and 
chemotherapy resistance in refractory patients, improving their outcomes.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.00201.2024
PMID: 39437444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2024 Oct 30;16(43):58217-58225. doi: 
10.1021/acsami.4c10935. Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Nanoscale Multipatterning Zn,Co-ZIF@FeOOH for Eradication of Multidrug-Resistant 
Bacteria and Antibacterial Treatment of Wounds.

Yi J(1), Pei C(2)(3), Zhang T(1), Qin Q(4), Gu X(1), Li Y(1), Ruan D(1), Wan 
J(3), Qiao L(1).

Author information:
(1)Minhang Hospital, and Department of Chemistry, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200000, China.
(2)School of Chemistry, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, East China Normal University, 
Shanghai 200241, China.
(4)Changhai Hospital, The Naval Military Medical University, Shanghai 200433, 
China.

The rising incidence of infections caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria 
highlights the urgent need for innovative bacterial eradication strategies. 
Metal ions, such as Zn2+ and Co2+, have bactericidal effects by disrupting 
bacterial cell membranes and interfering with essential cellular processes. This 
has led to increased attention toward metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) as 
potential nonantibiotic bactericidal agents. However, the uniform and enhanced 
localized release of bactericidal metal ions remains a challenge. Herein, we 
introduce a nanoscale multipatterned Zn,Co-ZIF@FeOOH, featuring a multipod-like 
morphology with spiky corners, and dual-bactericidal metal ions. Compared to 
pure Zn,Co-ZIF, the multipod-like morphology of Zn,Co-ZIF@FeOOH exhibits 
enhanced adhesion toward bacterial surfaces via topological and multiple 
interactions of electrostatic interaction, significantly increasing the local 
release of Zn2+ and Co2+. Additionally, the spiky corners of the spindle-shaped 
FeOOH nanorods physically penetrate bacterial membranes, causing damage and 
further enhancing adhesion to bacteria. Nine Gram-negative and one Gram-positive 
bacteria were selected for in vitro test. Notably, the nanoscale multipatterned 
Zn,Co-ZIF@FeOOH exhibited high bactericidal efficacy against various 
multidrug-resistant bacteria, including extended-spectrum β-lactamase-producing 
(ESBL+) bacteria and carbapenem-resistant bacteria, performing well in both 
acidic and neutral environments. The wound healing activity of Zn,Co-ZIF@FeOOH 
was further demonstrated using female Balb/c mouse models infected with 
bacteria, where the materials show robust antibacterial efficacy and commendable 
biocompatibility. This study showcases the assembly of metal oxide/MOF 
composites for nanoscale multipatterning, aims at synergistic bacterial 
eradication and offers insights into developing nanomaterial-based strategies 
against multidrug-resistant bacteria.

DOI: 10.1021/acsami.4c10935
PMID: 39435754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Microbiome. 2024 Oct 21;12(1):212. doi: 10.1186/s40168-024-01934-6.

Xylanase enhances gut microbiota-derived butyrate to exert immune-protective 
effects in a histone deacetylase-dependent manner.

Wang T(1), Zhou N(1), Ding F(1), Hao Z(2), Galindo-Villegas J(3), Du Z(1), Su 
X(2), Zhang M(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquaculture Nutrition and Environmental Health (LANEH), School 
of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, Institute of Animal Sciences, 
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing, 100193, China.
(3)Department of Genomics, Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, Nord 
University, Bodø, 8049, Norway.
(4)Laboratory of Aquaculture Nutrition and Environmental Health (LANEH), School 
of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai, 200241, China. 
mlzhang@bio.ecnu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Commensal bacteria in the intestine release enzymes to degrade and 
ferment dietary components, producing beneficial metabolites. However, the 
regulatory effects of microbial-derived enzymes on the intestinal microbiota 
composition and the influence on host health remain elusive. Xylanase can 
degrade xylan into oligosaccharides, showing wide application in feed industry.
RESULTS: To validate the immune-protective effects of xylanase, Nile tilapia was 
used as the model and fed with xylanase. The results showed that dietary 
xylanase improved the survival rate of Nile tilapia when they were challenged 
with Aeromonas hydrophila. The transcriptome analysis showed significant 
enrichment of genes related to interleukin-17d (il-17d) signaling pathway in the 
xylanase treatment group. High-throughput sequencing revealed that dietary 
xylanase altered the composition of the intestinal microbiota and directly 
promoted the proliferation of Allobaculum stercoricanis which could produce 
butyrate in vitro. Consequently, dietary xylanase supplementation increased the 
butyrate level in fish gut. Further experiment verified that butyrate 
supplementation enhanced the expression of il-17d and regenerating islet-derived 
3 gamma (reg3g) in the gut. The knockdown experiment of il-17d confirmed that 
il-17d is necessary for butyrate to protect Nile tilapia from pathogen 
resistance. Flow cytometry analysis indicated that butyrate increased the 
abundance of IL-17D+ intestinal epithelial cells in fish. Mechanistically, 
butyrate functions as an HDAC3 inhibitor, enhancing il-17d expression and 
playing a crucial role in pathogen resistance.
CONCLUSION: Dietary xylanase significantly altered the composition of intestinal 
microbiota and increased the content of butyrate in the intestine. Butyrate 
activated the transcription of il-17d in intestinal epithelial cells by 
inhibiting histone deacetylase 3, thereby protecting the Nile tilapia from 
pathogen infection. This study elucidated how microbial-derived xylanase 
regulates host immune function, providing a theoretical basis for the 
development and application of functional enzymes. Video Abstract.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-024-01934-6
PMCID: PMC11492574
PMID: 39434145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Environ Res. 2024 Dec 15;263(Pt 2):120196. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120196. 
Epub 2024 Oct 19.

Mechanisms of heavy metal-induced rhizosphere changes and crop metabolic 
evolution: The role of carbon materials.

Zhu B(1), Deng Y(2), Hou R(3), Wang R(4), Liu C(5), Jia Z(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Water Conservancy and Civil Engineering, Northeast Agricultural 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150030, China.
(2)Technical Centre for Soil, Agricultural and Rural Ecology and Environment, 
Ministry of Ecology and Environment, Beijing, 100012, China.
(3)School of Water Conservancy and Civil Engineering, Northeast Agricultural 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150030, China. Electronic address: 
hourenjie888@126.com.
(4)Heilongjiang province Five Building construction Engineering Co LTD, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, 150090, China.
(5)Heilongjiang Province River and Lake chief System Security center, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, 150000, China.

To investigate the effects of modified carbon-based materials on soil 
environmental remediation and crop physiological regulation, this research 
relied on rice pots with lead (Pb) and cadmium (Cd) composite contamination. 
Dolomite, montmorillonite, attapulgite and sepiolite modified biochar with 
different doses have been developed to explore the mechanisms on heavy metal 
passivation, nutrient improvement, microbial activation, and crop growth. The 
results indicated that the modified materials effectively reduced heavy metal 
bioavailability and accumulation in plant tissues through adsorption 
complexation. Specifically, under montmorillonite and sepiolite modified 
treatments, the Grains-Pb content significantly decreased by 29.23-30.31% and 
27.49-30.58%, compared to the control group (CK). Meantime, carbon-based 
materials increased available nutrient levels, providing a biological substrate 
for soil microorganisms metabolism. The content of ammonium nitrogen (NH4+-N) 
and available phosphorus (AP) in different proportions of montmorillonite 
modified biochar increased by 10.99-13.98% and 55.76-77.86%, respectively, 
compared to CK. Furthermore, sepiolite modified biochar enhanced bacterial 
community diversity, significantly improving the tolerance and resistance of 
bacterial communities such as Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria to heavy metals. 
Meanwhile, carbon-based materials enhanced community stability and network 
complexity, improving microbial stress resistance to adverse environments. In 
summary, montmorillonite and sepiolite modified biochar regulated microbial 
community interaction mechanisms by mitigating the physiological toxicity of 
heavy metals. This process enhanced soil available nutrients and ecological 
function stability, which had significant implications for improving crop growth 
and quality.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120196
PMID: 39427949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 1;286:117186. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117186. Epub 2024 Oct 19.

Metagenomic profiling of cecal microbiota and antibiotic resistome in rodents.

Shang KM(1), Elsheikha HM(2), Ma H(1), Wei YJ(1), Zhao JX(1), Qin Y(3), Li 
JM(4), Zhao ZY(5), Zhang XX(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural 
University, Qingdao, Shandong Province, PR China.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine and 
Science, University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington Campus, Loughborough, United 
Kingdom.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural 
University, Qingdao, Shandong Province, PR China; College of Veterinary 
Medicine, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun, Jilin Province, PR China.
(4)College of Chinese Medicinal Materials, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun, Jilin Province, PR China; Jilin Provincial Engineering 
Research Center for Efficient Breeding and Product Development of Sika 
Deer, Changchun, Jilin Province, PR China; Key Laboratory of Animal Production 
and Product Quality and Security, Ministry of Education, Ministry of National 
Education, Changchun, Jilin Province, PR China.
(5)College of Veterinary Medicine, Jilin Agricultural 
University, Changchun, Jilin Province, PR China.
(6)College of Veterinary Medicine, Qingdao Agricultural 
University, Qingdao, Shandong Province, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhangxiaoxuan1988@126.com.

The rodent gut microbiota is a known reservoir of antimicrobial resistance, yet 
the distribution of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) within rodent cecal 
microbial communities and the specific bacterial species harboring these ARGs 
remain largely underexplored. This study employed high-throughput sequencing of 
122 samples from five distinct rodent species to comprehensively profile the 
diversity and distribution of ARGs and to identify the bacterial hosts of these 
genes. A gene catalog of the rodent cecal microbiome was constructed, comprising 
22,757,369 non-redundant genes. Analysis of the microbial composition and 
diversity revealed that Bacillota and Bacteroidota were the dominant bacterial 
phyla across different rodent species, with significant variations in species 
composition among the rodents. In total, 3703 putative antimicrobial resistance 
protein-coding genes were identified, corresponding to 392 unique ARG types 
classified into 32 resistance classes. The most enriched ARGs in the rodent 
cecal microbiome were associated with multidrug resistance, followed by 
glycopeptide and elfamycin antibiotics. Procrustes analysis demonstrated a 
correlation between the structure of the microbial community and the resistome. 
Metagenomic assembly-based host tracking indicated that most ARG-carrying 
contigs originated from the bacterial family Oscillospiraceae. Additionally, 130 
ARGs showed significant correlations with mobile genetic elements. These 
findings provide new insights into the cecal microbiota and the prevalence of 
ARGs across five rodent species. Future research on a wider range of wild rodent 
species carrying ARGs will further elucidate the mechanisms underlying the 
transmission of antimicrobial resistance.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117186
PMID: 39426111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Microbiome. 2024 Oct 18;12(1):206. doi: 10.1186/s40168-024-01940-8.

Upper respiratory microbial communities of healthy populations are shaped by 
niche and age.

Zelasko S(1)(2), Swaney MH(3)(4), Sandstrom S(4), Davenport TC(5), Seroogy 
CM(6), Gern JE(6)(7), Kalan LR(4)(7)(8), Currie CR(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA. szelasko@wisc.edu.
(2)Microbiology Doctoral Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, WI, USA. szelasko@wisc.edu.
(3)Microbiology Doctoral Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(8)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, M.G. DeGroote Institute 
for Infectious Disease Research, David Braley Centre for Antibiotic Discovery, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(9)Department of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA. ccurrie@mcmaster.ca.
(10)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences, M.G. DeGroote Institute 
for Infectious Disease Research, David Braley Centre for Antibiotic Discovery, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. ccurrie@mcmaster.ca.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 Apr 14:2024.04.14.589416. doi: 10.1101/2024.04.14.589416.

BACKGROUND: Alterations in upper respiratory microbiomes have been implicated in 
shaping host health trajectories, including by limiting mucosal pathogen 
colonization. However, limited comparative studies of respiratory microbiome 
development and functioning across age groups have been performed. Herein, we 
perform shotgun metagenomic sequencing paired with pathogen inhibition assays to 
elucidate differences in nasal and oral microbiome composition and 
intermicrobial interactions across healthy 24-month-old infant (n = 229) and 
adult (n = 100) populations.
RESULTS: We find that beta diversity of nasal and oral microbiomes varies with 
age, with nasal microbiomes showing greater population-level variation compared 
to oral microbiomes. Infant microbiome alpha diversity was significantly lower 
across nasal samples and higher in oral samples, relative to adults. 
Accordingly, we demonstrate significant differences in genus- and species-level 
composition of microbiomes between sites and age groups. Antimicrobial resistome 
patterns likewise varied across body sites, with oral microbiomes showing higher 
resistance gene abundance compared to nasal microbiomes. Biosynthetic gene 
clusters encoding specialized metabolite production were found in higher 
abundance across infant oral microbiomes, relative to adults. Investigation of 
pathogen inhibition revealed greater inhibition of gram-negative and 
gram-positive bacteria by oral commensals, while nasal isolates had higher 
antifungal activity.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we identify significant differences in the microbial 
communities inhabiting nasal and oral cavities of healthy infants relative to 
adults. These findings inform our understanding of the interactions impacting 
respiratory microbiome composition and functions related to colonization 
resistance, with important implications for host health across the lifespan. 
Video Abstract.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-024-01940-8
PMCID: PMC11490146
PMID: 39425237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. BMC Microbiol. 2024 Oct 19;24(1):418. doi: 10.1186/s12866-024-03578-w.

Metagenome-based microbial community analysis of urine-derived fertilizer.

Woldeyohannis NN(1), Desta AF(2).

Author information:
(1)Microbial cellular and molecular Biology Department, Addis Ababa University, 
P.O.BOX 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
(2)Microbial cellular and molecular Biology Department, Addis Ababa University, 
P.O.BOX 1176, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. adey.feleke@aau.edu.et.

Phosphorus is essential for food production and its supply is limited. Urine is 
an excellent source of phosphorus and one way to produce fertilizer is through 
conversion of urine to struvite (MgNH3PO4.6H2O). The present study aimed to 
understand the bacterial portion of the microbial community composition and 
dynamics of plasmid-mediated antimicrobial resistant genes during the optimized 
process of struvite production from composite human urine. Samples for DNA 
extraction was collected from fresh urine, stored urine and struvite during the 
process of struvite production. Shotgun metagenomic analysis was employed to 
understand the bacterial community. The most dominant phyla in the fresh and 
stored urine samples were Pseudomonadata, which comprised of 60% and 43% 
respectively, followed by Bacillota, comprised of 25% and 39% respectively. The 
struvite sample was dominated by the phylum Bacilliota (61%), Pseudomonadota 
(18%) and bacteroidota (12%). Members of the above phyla persisted in dominating 
each sample accordingly. Member of the family Morganellaceae was dominant in the 
fresh sample while the stored urine and struvite samples were dominated by the 
family Clostridiaceae. A decrease of members of the class Gammaproteobacteria 
was observed from the fresh to the struvite sample though not statistically 
significant. The genus Pseudomonas remained to be the most dominant member of 
Gammaproteobacteria in the fresh and stored urine sample with OTU count of 
12,116 and 6,155 with a marked decrease by half in the stored sample. On the 
other hand, members of the genera Clostridium, Enterococcus, Bacteroides in the 
stored samples and Clostridium, Alkaliphilus and Pseudomonas in the struvite 
samples were dominant. 96% of the identified genera were shared in all the 
samples and the antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs) identified in the fresh 
urine were shared by the struvite but not by the stored urine (e.g. sul, cat, 
aph and aac members). The presence of high abundance of ARGs in struvite needs 
attention in the persistence and transmissibility of the ARGs before application 
for agriculture.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-024-03578-w
PMCID: PMC11490151
PMID: 39425038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:176915. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176915.  Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Toxic metals in Amazonian soil modify the bacterial community associated with 
Diplopoda.

Santos-Silva L(1), Roque WF(1), de Moura JM(2), Mello IS(1), de Carvalho LAL(3), 
Pinheiro DG(3), Bouzan RS(4), Brescovit AD(4), de Andrade RLT(5), da Silva 
GF(6), Battirola LD(7), Soares MA(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil; Federal Institute of 
Education, Science and Technology of Mato Grosso (IFMT), Av. Ver. Juliano da 
Costa Marques, S/N - Bela Vista, 78050-560 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(3)Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Agricultural, Livestock and 
Environmental Biotechnology, São Paulo State University (UNESP), School of 
Agricultural and Veterinary Sciences, Jaboticabal, S/N - Vila Industrial, 
14884-900 São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Zoological Collections (LCZ), Butantã, Av. Vital Brazil, 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Interdisciplinary Chemical Research Laboratory (LIPEQ), Institute of Natural, 
Human and Social Sciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso, Av. das Figueiras, 
6.669, Aquarela das Artes, Sinop, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(6)Molecular Biology Laboratory, Embrapa Amazônia Ocidental, Highway AM 010 km 
29 Road Manau, Itacoatiara - AM, 69010-970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(7)Biological Collection of Southern Amazonia (ABAM), Institute of Natural, 
Human and Social Sciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. das 
Figueiras, 6.669, Aquarela das Artes, Sinop, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(8)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil. Electronic address: 
drmasoares@gmail.com.

Toxic metal pollution in the Amazon is a serious problem that reduces the 
quality of water, soil, air, and consequently alters communities of fauna, 
flora, and microbiota, harming human health and well-being. Our aim was to 
determine the impact of toxic metals on the structure of the bacterial community 
associated with Diplopoda in the Amazon rainforest. Animals were kept in 
microcosms contaminated with cadmium (50 mg.kg-1), mercury (35 mg.kg-1) and no 
toxic metal (control). The intestinal and molting chamber microbiota were 
accessed by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods (16S 
metabarcoding). The cultivated strains were identified, and their functional 
traits evaluated: secretion of enzymes, growth at different pH, resistance to 
metals and antibiotics, and ability to reduce toxic effects of metals on plants. 
Our research described Brachyurodesmus albus, a new species of Diplopoda. We 
obtained 177 isolates distributed in 35 genera and 61 species of bacteria 
(Pseudomonadota, Bacillota, Bacteroidota and Actinomycetota) associated with the 
gut and molting chamber of B. albus. Metabarcoding data provided a more robust 
access to the bacterial community, resulting in 24 phyla, 561 genera and 6792 
ASVs. The presence of metal Cd and Hg alters the composition and abundance of 
bacteria associated with B. albus (PERMANOVA p < 0.05). The microhabitat (gut 
and molting chamber) harbours bacterial communities that differ in composition 
and abundance (PERMANOVA p < 0.05). The presence of Cd and Hg alters important 
metabolic pathways related to the prokaryotic defense system; antimicrobial 
resistance genes, endocytosis and secretion system, estimated by PICRUSt. 
Bacteria selected with high resistance to Cd and Hg buffer the toxic effect of 
metals on tomato seedlings. This work describes B. albus and concludes that its 
diverse bacterial microbiota is altered by soil contamination by toxic metals, 
as well as being an important repository for prospecting strains to be applied 
in bioremediation programs.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176915
PMID: 39419211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.

1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Nov;281(Pt 4):136571. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136571. Epub 2024 Oct 15.

Surface modification of surgical suture by chitosan-based biocompatible hybrid 
coatings: In-vitro anti-corrosion, antibacterial, and in-vivo wound healing 
studies.

Arshad N(1), Chaudhary AA(2), Saleem S(3), Akram M(2), Qureshi MAUR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Allama Iqbal Open University, 44000 Islamabad, 
Pakistan. Electronic address: nasima.arshad@aiou.edu.pk.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Allama Iqbal Open University, 44000 Islamabad, 
Pakistan.
(3)Faculty of Life Sciences, Health Services Academy (HSA), 44000 Islamabad, 
Pakistan.

This work aims to develop chitosan-based biocompatible hybrid coatings on 
synthetic surgical sutured by direct current electrophoretic deposition (DC-EPD) 
method. The chitosan (CS), curcumin (CR), aloe-vera (AV), and 
2-aminothiazolidin-4-one-5-ethanoic acid (AT) were used as suspensions of 
varying combinations and compositions (A-I). Each suspension has a further 05 
samples (Aa-Ae-Ia-Ie) at selected DC-EPD set parameters (2-10 V, t; 240 s, D; 
1 cm). Potentiodynamic polarization measurements (PDP) were carried out in the 
ringer solution. Among all samples, Ed (CS, 1.6 g/L; 8 V) and Hb (CS-CR-AT, 
1.6 g/Leach; 4 V) have shown greatest corrosion inhibition efficiency (IEPDP: 
99 %), least corrosion rates (CR; 0.001 mm/y and 0.017 mm/y, respectively), and 
least corrosion current density (Icorr.; 0.01 A cm-2). SEM and FTIR further 
confirmed these two best coatings stable and corrosion resistant before and 
after performing corrosion test, while the coating thickness by profilometry 
test was found to be greater (16.28 μm) for Hb. Mechanical stress and strain of 
bare and coated samples were found to have no significant difference. 
Antibacterial activity revealed greater resistance of Hb against S. aureus as 
compared to Ed. In-vivo incision wound model study further revealed better 
healing and less inflammation with coated sutures with comparatively enhanced 
wound healing effect of Hb coated suture.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136571
PMID: 39419154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest There are no 
conflicts to declare.

1. Environ Int. 2024 Nov;193:109051. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109051. Epub 2024
 Oct 5.

The variation of resistome, mobilome and pathogen in domestic and industrial 
wastewater treatment systems.

Chen J(1), Su Z(2), Li F(3), Cao F(4), Xiong F(4), Jiang B(5), Xing Y(1), Wen 
D(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Energy and Environmental Engineering, University of Science and 
Technology, Beijing 100083, China.
(2)School of Environment, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China. Electronic 
address: suzhiguo@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.
(3)School of Environment, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(4)College of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 
100871, China.
(5)School of Energy and Environmental Engineering, University of Science and 
Technology, Beijing 100083, China. Electronic address: jiangbo_seee@ustb.edu.cn.

Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs), including both domestic and industrial 
facilities, are key contributors to antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and human 
pathogens in the environment. However, the characteristics and dissemination 
mechanisms of ARGs in domestic (SD) and industrial (SI) wastewater treatment 
systems remain unclear, leading to uncertainties in risk assessment. Based on 
metagenomic analysis, we observed significant differences in the compositions of 
resistome (ARGs and metal resistance genes, MRGs), mobilome (mobile genetic 
elements, MGEs), and bacterial community between SD and SI. SI exhibited lower 
diversity of ARGs but higher abundance of MRGs compared to SD. The removal 
efficiency of resistome was lower in the SI than that in the SD. MGEs emerged as 
the primary driver of ARG dissemination in the WWTPs, followed by the bacterial 
community. Environmental conditions (physicochemical parameters, heavy metals, 
and antibiotics) indirectly influenced the variation of resistome. 
Significantly, environmental conditions and MGEs highly influenced the 
composition of resistome in the SI, while bacterial community more associated 
with resistome in the SD. Additionally, we identified 36 human bacterial 
pathogens as potential hosts of ARGs, MRGs, and MGEs in wastewater samples. This 
study provides new insights on the dissemination mechanisms and risk assessment 
of antimicrobial resistance in the different types of WWTPs.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109051
PMID: 39418785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Oct 16;108(1):487. doi: 
10.1007/s00253-024-13326-9.

Department-specific patterns of bacterial communities and antibiotic resistance 
in hospital indoor environments.

Yang Q(1)(2), Zhang M(1), Tu Z(1), Sun Y(1), Zhao B(1), Cheng Z(1), Chen L(1), 
Zhong Z(3), Ye Y(3), Xia Y(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 518055, China.
(2)School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK.
(3)Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, 1120 Lianhua Rd, Futian, Shenzhen, 
518036, Guangdong, China.
(4)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, 
Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 518055, China. 
xiay@sustech.edu.cn.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Soil and Groundwater Pollution 
Control, School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Southern University of 
Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 518055, China. xiay@sustech.edu.cn.
(6)State Environmental Protection Key Laboratory of Integrated Surface 
Water-Groundwater Pollution Control, School of Environmental Science and 
Engineering, Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, 518055, 
China. xiay@sustech.edu.cn.

The hospital indoor environment has a crucial impact on the microbial exposures 
that humans encounter. Resistance to antibiotics is a mechanism used by bacteria 
to develop resilience in indoor environments, and the widespread use of 
antibiotics has led to changes in the ecological function of resistance genes 
and their acquisition by pathogens. By integrating the 16S rRNA Illumina 
sequencing and high-throughput-quantitative PCR approaches with water and air 
dust samples across seven departments in Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, 
China, this study yields intriguing findings regarding the department-specific 
variations, correlations and source tracing of bacteria, antibiotic resistance 
genes (ARGs) and mobile genetic elements (MGEs) within the hospital indoor 
environment. A notable observation was the pivotal role played by seasonal 
variations in shaping the bacterial composition across the entire hospital 
indoor environment. Another department-specific finding was the correlation 
between ARGs and MGEs abundance, which was evident in the overall hospital 
indoor environment, but not found in the blood test room, ophthalmology, and 
gynecology departments. Notably, as an important source of bacteria and 
ARGs/MGEs for the blood test room, the gynecology department also presented a 
close link between bacterial communities and the presence of ARGs/MGEs. 
Additionally, the results reiterate the importance of surveillance and 
monitoring of antibiotic resistance, specifically in Legionella spp. in man-made 
water systems, and highlight the significance of understanding genetic elements 
like Tp614 involved in gene transfer and recombination, and their impact on 
antimicrobial treatment efficacy. KEY POINTS: • The department-specific 
variations, correlations and source tracing of bacteria, ARGs, and MGEs were 
uncovered in the hospital's indoor environment. • Although each department 
exhibited consistent seasonal impacts on bacterial compositions, the 
co-occurrence between the presence of ARGs and MGEs was exclusively evident in 
the emergency, surgery, pneumology and otolaryngology departments. • The 
gynecology department emerged as a crucial source of bacteria, ARGs and MGEs 
within the hospital. Additionally, it was found to exhibit a significant 
correlation between bacterial communities and the presence of ARGs and MGEs.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00253-024-13326-9
PMCID: PMC11485044
PMID: 39412549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Oct 8;25(19):10817. doi: 10.3390/ijms251910817.

Assessment of Skimmed Milk Flocculation for Bacterial Enrichment from Water 
Samples, and Benchmarking of DNA Extraction and 16S rRNA Databases for 
Metagenomics.

Donchev D(1), Stoikov I(1), Diukendjieva A(2), Ivanov IN(1).

Author information:
(1)National Reference Laboratory for Control and Monitoring of Antimicrobial 
Resistance, Department of Microbiology, National Center of Infectious and 
Parasitic Diseases, 26 Yanko Sakazov Blvd., 1504 Sofia, Bulgaria.
(2)Biocampus Sofia Association, 6 Olimpiyska Street, fl.8, 1766 Sofia, Bulgaria.

Water samples for bacterial microbiome studies undergo biomass concentration, 
DNA extraction, and taxonomic identification steps. Through benchmarking, we 
studied the applicability of skimmed milk flocculation (SMF) for bacterial 
enrichment, an adapted in-house DNA extraction protocol, and six 16S rRNA 
databases (16S-DBs). Surface water samples from two rivers were treated with SMF 
and vacuum filtration (VF) and subjected to amplicon or shotgun metagenomics. A 
microbial community standard underwent five DNA extraction protocols, 
taxonomical identification with six different 16S-DBs, and evaluation by the 
Measurement Integrity Quotient (MIQ) score. In SMF samples, the skimmed milk was 
metabolized by members of lactic acid bacteria or genera such as Polaromonas, 
Macrococcus, and Agitococcus, resulting in increased relative abundance (p < 
0.5) up to 5.0 log fold change compared to VF, rendering SMF inapplicable for 
bacterial microbiome studies. The best-performing DNA extraction protocols were 
FastSpin Soil, the in-house method, and EurX. All 16S-DBs yielded comparable MIQ 
scores within each DNA extraction kit, ranging from 61-66 (ZymoBIOMICs) up to 
80-82 (FastSpin). DNA extraction kits exert more bias toward the composition 
than 16S-DBs. This benchmarking study provided valuable information to inform 
future water metagenomic study designs.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms251910817
PMCID: PMC11477342
PMID: 39409144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The funders had no role in the design of the 
study; in the collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing of 
the manuscript; or in the decision to publish the results.

1. Molecules. 2024 Oct 4;29(19):4708. doi: 10.3390/molecules29194708.

Red Grape By-Products from the Demarcated Douro Region: Chemical Analysis, 
Antioxidant Potential and Antimicrobial Activity against Food-Borne Pathogens.

Silva A(1)(2)(3)(4), Martins R(5), Silva V(1)(2)(3)(4), Fernandes F(5), Carvalho 
R(6), Aires A(7), Igrejas G(2)(3)(4), Falco V(5)(7), Valentão P(5), Poeta 
P(1)(2)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Microbiology and Antibiotic Resistance Team (MicroART), Department of 
Veterinary Sciences, University of Traás-os-Montes and Alto Douro (UTAD), 
5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(2)LAQV-REQUIMTE, Department of Chemistry, NOVA School of Science and 
Technology, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, 2829-516 Caparica, Portugal.
(3)Department of Genetics and Biotechnology, University of Traás-os-Montes and 
Alto Douro (UTAD), 5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(4)Functional Genomics and Proteomics Unit, University of Traás-os-Montes and 
Alto Douro (UTAD), 5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(5)LAQV-REQUIMTE, Laboratoário de Farmacognosia, Departamento de Quiámica, 
Faculdade de Farmaácia, Universidade do Porto, 4050-313 Porto, Portugal.
(6)Department of Agronomy, School of Agrarian and Veterinary Sciences, 
University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro (UTAD), 5001-801 Vila Real, 
Portugal.
(7)Centre for the Research and Technology of Agro-Environmental and Biological 
Sciences (CITAB), University of Traás-os-Montes and Alto Douro (UTAD), 5000-801 
Vila Real, Portugal.
(8)CECAV-Veterinary and Animal Research Centre, University of Traás-os-Montes 
and Alto Douro (UTAD), 5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.
(9)Veterinary and Animal Research Centre, Associate Laboratory for Animal and 
Veterinary Sciences (AL4AnimalS), University of Traás-os-Montes and Alto Douro 
(UTAD), 5000-801 Vila Real, Portugal.

Wine production is one of the most important agricultural activities. The 
winemaking process generates a considerable volume of different residues 
characterized as by-products, such as pomace, seeds, stems, and skins. 
By-products are rich in polyphenols with antioxidant and antibacterial 
properties and may act as bacteriostatic or bactericidal agents against 
food-borne pathogens, improving food safety by enhancing antibiotic efficacy and 
reducing bacterial resistance. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
phenolic composition and antioxidant activity of grape components (skins, seeds, 
and stems) from three red grape varieties (Periquita, Gamay, and Donzelinho 
Tinto) and determine their antibacterial activity against antibiotic-resistant 
bacteria, including Escherichia coli in food-producing animals and Listeria 
monocytogenes from food products and food-related environments. Ten phenolic 
compounds were quantified in these red grape varieties, with specific compounds 
found in different parts of the grape, including phenolic acids and flavonoids. 
Flavonoids are abundant in seeds and stems, malvidin-3-O-glucoside being the 
main anthocyanin in skins. The ethanolic extract from the seeds showed in vitro 
concentration-dependent activity against reactive species like •NO and O2•-. 
Gamay extract was the most effective, followed by Donzelinho Tinto and 
Periquita. Extracts showed varying antibacterial activity against Gram-positive 
and Gram-negative bacteria, with stronger effects on Gram-positive bacteria. L. 
monocytogenes was more susceptible, while E. coli was limited to three strains. 
Seeds exhibited the strongest antibacterial activity, followed by stems. The 
results of our study provide evidence of the potential of grape by-products, 
particularly seeds, as sources of bioactive compounds with antioxidant and 
antibacterial properties, offering promising avenues for enhancing food safety 
and combating antibiotic resistance in food production and related environments.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29194708
PMCID: PMC11478187
PMID: 39407636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Molecules. 2024 Oct 2;29(19):4682. doi: 10.3390/molecules29194682.

Essential Oil-Based Soap with Clove and Oregano: A Promising Antifungal and 
Antibacterial Alternative against Multidrug-Resistant Microorganisms.

Cruz APM(1), Nishimura FG(1), Santos VCOD(1), Steling EG(2), Von Zeska Kress 
MR(2), Marins M(1), Fachin AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Biotecnologia, Universidade de Ribeirão Preto (UNAERP), Ribeirao 
Preto 14096-900, Brazil.
(2)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo 
(USP), Ribeirão Preto 14040-903, Brazil.

The transmission of microorganisms via hands is a critical factor in 
healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), underscoring the importance of rigorous 
hand hygiene. The rise of antimicrobial-resistant microorganisms, driven in part 
by the overuse of antibiotics in clinical medicine, presents a significant 
global health challenge. Antimicrobial soaps, although commonly used, may 
exacerbate bacterial resistance and disrupt skin microbiota, posing additional 
health risks and environmental hazards. Essential oils, with their 
broad-spectrum antimicrobial properties, offer a promising alternative. This 
study evaluates the antimicrobial activity of essential oils against various 
bacterial and fungal strains, including multidrug-resistant isolates. Using a 
range of in vitro and in vivo antimicrobial assays, including minimal inhibitory 
concentration (MIC), minimal bactericidal concentration (MBC), and minimal 
fungicidal concentration (MFC), the essential oils were tested against a broad 
spectrum of pathogens. Additionally, the chemical composition of the oils was 
analyzed in detail using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (CG-MS). Clove, 
oregano, and thyme oils demonstrated potent inhibition of all tested ATCC 
bacterial strains, with MIC values ranging from 3.125 to 50 μL/mL. These oils 
also showed significant activity against multidrug-resistant Escherichia coli 
and Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains. Notably, clove oil exhibited remarkable 
efficacy against fungal strains such as Aspergillus fumigatus and Trichophyton 
rubrum, with MIC values as low as 1.56 μL/mL. Synergy tests revealed that 
combinations of clove, oregano, and thyme oils yielded significantly lower MIC 
values than individual oils, indicating additive or synergistic effects. The 
formulation of a soap incorporating clove and oregano oils demonstrated efficacy 
comparable to synthetic antiseptics in vivo. These findings highlight the 
exceptional antimicrobial potential of essential oils, mainly clove and oregano, 
against resistant microorganisms, offering a viable alternative to conventional 
antimicrobial agents.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules29194682
PMCID: PMC11477625
PMID: 39407610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.

1. Anal Chem. 2024 Oct 29;96(43):17192-17200. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c02929. 
Epub 2024 Oct 15.

Direct Klebsiella pneumoniae Carbapenem Resistance and Carbapenemases Genotype 
Prediction by Al-MOF/TiO(2)@Au Cubic Heterostructures-Assisted Intact Bacterial 
Cells Metabolic Analysis.

Ma D(1)(2), Wang Y(1), Ye J(1), Ding CF(1)(2), Yan Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mass Spectrometry, School of Materials Science and Chemical 
Engineering, Ningbo University, Ningbo 315211, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Advanced Mass Spectrometry and Molecular Analysis of 
Zhejiang Province, Ningbo 315211, China.

Carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CRKP) infections pose a significant 
threat to human health. Fast and accurate prediction of K. pneumoniae carbapenem 
resistance and carbapenemase genotype is critical for guiding antibiotic 
treatment and reducing mortality rates. In this study, we present a novel method 
using Al-MOF/TiO2@Au cubic heterostructures for the metabolic analysis of intact 
bacterial cells, enabling rapid diagnosis of CRKP and its carbapenemases 
genotype. The Al-MOF/TiO2@Au cubic composites display strong light absorption 
and high surface area, facilitating the in situ effective extraction of 
metabolic fingerprints from intact bacterial cells. Utilizing this method, we 
rapidly and sensitively extracted metabolic fingerprints from 169 clinical 
isolates of K. pneumoniae obtained from patients. Machine learning analysis of 
the metabolic fingerprint changes successfully distinguishes CRKP from the 
sensitive strains, achieving the high area under the curve (AUC) values of 1.00 
in both training and testing sets based on the 254 m/z features, respectively. 
Additionally, this platform enables rapid carbapenemase genotype discrimination 
of CRKP for precision antibiotic therapy. Our strategy holds great potential for 
swift diagnosis of CRKP and carbapenemase genotype discrimination, guiding 
effective management of CRKP bacterial infections in both hospital and community 
settings.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.4c02929
PMID: 39405400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Front Microbiol. 2024 Sep 25;15:1458454. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2024.1458454. 
eCollection 2024.

Next-generation sequencing-based comparative mapping and culture-based screening 
of bacterial rhizobiome in Phytophthora capsici-resistant and susceptible Piper 
species.

Hima Parvathy A(1)(2), Santhoshkumar R(1), Soniya EV(1).

Author information:
(1)Transdisciplinary Biology, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, 
Thiruvananthapuram, India.
(2)Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad, India.

Black pepper (Piper nigrum L.), a highly valued spice crop, is economically 
significant as one of the most widely traded spices in the world. The global 
yield and quality of black pepper (Piper nigrum L.) are affected by foot 
rot-causing soil-borne oomycete pathogen Phytophthora capsici. To gain initial 
insights toward developing an approach that utilizes microbial genetic resources 
for controlling foot rot disease in black pepper, we mapped the rhizobiome 
communities in susceptible Piper nigrum L. and wild-resistant Piper colubrinum. 
The analysis showed compositional differences in the rhizobiome of two Piper 
species, which revealed higher diversity and the presence of more differentially 
abundant genera in P. colubrinum. Furthermore, P. colubrinum rhizobiome had a 
significantly higher abundance of known anti-oomycete genera, such as 
Pseudomonas, and a higher differential abundance of Janthinobacterium, 
Variovorax, and Comamonas, indicating their probable contribution to pathogen 
resistance. Predictive functional profiling in P. colubrinum rhizobiome showed 
highly enriched functional gene orthologs (KOs), particularly chemotaxis 
proteins, osmoprotectants, and other transport systems that aid in pathogen 
resistance. Similarly, pathways such as phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and other 
antimicrobial synthesis were enriched in P. colubrinum rhizobiome. The 
culturable diversity of the resistant root endosphere, which harbors efficient 
biocontrol agents such as Pseudomonas, strengthens the possible role of root 
microbiome in conferring resistance against soil-borne pathogens. Our results 
depicted a clear distinction in the rhizobiome architecture of resistant and 
susceptible Piper spp., suggesting its influence in recruiting bacterial 
communities that probably contribute to pathogen resistance.

Copyright © 2024 Hima Parvathy, Santhoshkumar and Soniya.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2024.1458454
PMCID: PMC11472852
PMID: 39403087

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Microb Cell Fact. 2024 Oct 15;23(1):278. doi: 10.1186/s12934-024-02535-6.

Antimicrobial activity and nanoremediation of heavy metals using biosynthesized 
CS/GO/ZnO nanocomposite by Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633 alone or immobilized in a 
macroporous cryogel.

El-Zahed MM(1), Abou-Dobara MI(2), El-Khodary MM(2), Mousa MMA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Damietta 
University, New Damietta, 34517, Egypt. mohamed.marzouq91@du.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Botany and Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Damietta 
University, New Damietta, 34517, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: The world society is still suffering greatly from waterborne 
infections, with developing countries bearing most of the morbidity and death 
burden, especially concerning young children. Moreover, microbial resistance is 
one of the most prevalent global problems that extends the need for 
self-medication and the healing period, or it may be linked to treatment failure 
that results in further hospitalization, higher healthcare expenses, and higher 
mortality rates. Thus, innovative synthesis of new antimicrobial materials is 
required to preserve the environment and enhance human health.
RESULTS: The present study highlighted a simple and cost-effective approach to 
biosynthesize a chitosan/graphene oxide/zinc oxide nanocomposite (CS/GO/ZnO) 
alone and immobilized in a macroporous cryogel as a new antimicrobial agent. 
Bacillus subtilis ATCC 6633 was used as a safe and efficient bio-nano-factory 
during biosynthesis. The formation of CS/GO/ZnO was confirmed and characterized 
using different analyses including ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy (UV-Vis), 
X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), 
selective area diffraction pattern (SADP), Zeta analyses, scanning electron 
microscope (SEM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). GO combined with 
ZnO NPs successfully and displayed an adsorption peak at 358 nm. The XRD results 
showed the crystalline composition of the loaded ZnO NPs on GO sheets. FTIR 
spectrum confirmed the presence of proteins during the synthesis which act as 
stabilizing and capping agents. The nanocomposite has a high negative surface 
charge (-32.8 ± 5.7 mV) which increases its stability. SEM and TEM showing the 
size of biosynthesized ZnO-NPs was in the range of 40-50 nm. The CS/GO/ZnO alone 
or immobilized in cryogel revealed good antimicrobial activities against B. 
cereus ATCC 14,579, Escherichia coli ATCC 25,922, and Candida albicans ATCC 
10,231 in a dose-dependent manner. The CS/GO/ZnO cryogel revealed higher 
antimicrobial activity than GO/ZnO nanocomposite and standard antibiotics 
(amoxicillin and miconazole) with inhibition zones averages of 24.33 ± 0.12, 
15.67 ± 0.03, and 17.5 ± 0.49 mm, respectively. The MIC values of the prepared 
nanocomposite against B. cereus, E. coli, and C. albicans were 80, 80, and 
90 µg/ml compared to standard drugs (90, 120 and 150 µg/ml, respectively). 
According to the TEM ultrastructure studies of nanocomposite-treated microbes, 
treated cells had severe deformities and morphological alterations compared to 
the untreated cells including cell wall distortion, the separation between the 
cell wall and plasma membrane, vacuoles formation moreover complete cell lyses 
were also noted. In the cytotoxicity test of CS/GO/ZnO alone and its cryogel, 
there was a significant reduction (p˂0.05) in cell viability of WI-38 normal 
lung cell line after the concentration of 209 and 164 µg/ml, respectively. It 
showed the low toxic effect of the nanocomposite and its cryogel on the WI-38 
line which implies its safety. In addition, water treatment with the CS/GO/ZnO 
cryogel decreased turbidity (0.58 NTU), total coliform (2 CFU/100 ml), fecal 
coliform (1 CFU/100 ml), fecal Streptococcus (2 CFU/100 ml), and heterotrophic 
plate counts (53 CFU/1 ml) not only in comparison with the chlorine-treated 
samples (1.69 NTU, 4 CFU/100 ml, 6 CFU/100 ml, 57 CFU/100 ml, and 140 CFU/1 ml, 
respectively) but also with the raw water samples (6.9 NTU, 10800 CFU/100 ml, 
660 CFU/100 ml, 800 CFU/100 ml, and 4400 CFU/1 ml, respectively). Moreover, 
cryogel significantly decreased the concentration of different heavy metals, 
especially cobalt compared to chlorine (0.004 ppm, 0.002 ppm, and 0.001 ppm for 
raw water, chlorine-treated, and cryogel-treated groups, respectively) which 
helped in the reduction of their toxic effects.
CONCLUSION: This study provides an effective, promising, safe, and alternative 
nanocomposite to treat different human and animal pathogenic microbes that might 
be used in different environmental, industrial, and medical applications.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12934-024-02535-6
PMCID: PMC11475717
PMID: 39402571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Microb Pathog. 2024 Nov;196:107006. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107006. Epub 
2024 Oct 12.

Exploring the antimicrobial efficacy of tea tree essential oil and chitosan 
against oral pathogens to overcome antimicrobial resistance.

Oliveira MS(1), Paula MSA(2), Cardoso MM(3), Silva NP(4), Tavares LCD(5), Gomes 
TV(6), Porto DL(7), Aragão CFS(8), Fabri RL(9), Tavares GD(10), Apolônio 
ACM(11).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Dentistry of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, 
Brazil. Electronic address: dra.marisimoes@gmail.com.
(2)Faculty of Pharmacy of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil. 
Electronic address: amarcelle2016@gmail.com.
(3)Faculty of Pharmacy of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil. 
Electronic address: millenamachado.cardoso@estudante.ufjf.br.
(4)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences of the Federal University of Juiz 
de Fora, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: npsilva90@gmail.com.
(5)Graduate Program in Dentistry of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, 
Brazil. Electronic address: lcdiniz1@hotmail.com.
(6)Graduate Program in Dentistry of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, 
Brazil. Electronic address: taleessagjf@gmail.com.
(7)Medicine Quality Control Laboratory of the Pharmacy Department of the Federal 
University of Rio Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. Electronic address: 
daylopesporto@gmail.com.
(8)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences at the Federal University of Rio 
Grande do Norte, RN, Brazil. Electronic address: cicero.aragao@yahoo.com.br.
(9)Institute of Biological Sciences of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, 
MG, Brazil. Electronic address: rodrigo.fabri@ufjf.br.
(10)Graduate Program in Pharmaceutical Sciences of the Federal University of 
Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil. Electronic address: guilherme.tavares@ufjf.br.
(11)Institute of Biological Sciences of the Federal University of Juiz de Fora, 
MG, Brazil. Electronic address: carolina.apolonio@ufjf.br.

BACKGROUND: Considering that antimicrobial resistance among oral pathogens is a 
significant concern in dental practice, with broader implications for overall 
health due to the oral microbiota serving as a reservoir for antibiotic 
resistance genes (ARGs), research into natural products is crucial for 
addressing this issue.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate tea tree oil (TTO) and chitosan (CH) 
performance against oral pathogens, including mixed-species biofilm, and its 
effects on bacteria growth, in addition to chemical characterization and 
cytotoxicity of TTO.
METHODS: Tea Tree Oil and low molecular weight chitosan were used in this study. 
The chemical composition of TTO was analyzed using gas chromatography coupled 
with mass spectrometry (GC-MS). To evaluate TTO's antimicrobial properties, 
time-kill and cell viability assays were conducted. Additionally, minimum 
inhibitory concentration (MIC), minimum microbiocidal concentration (MMC), 
checkerboard, and biofilm assays were performed using TTO and CH alone and in 
combination.
RESULTS: TTO chromatography peaks found consistent with the standard 
ISO4730:2017 and literature. TTO and CH exhibited inhibitory activity against 
all tested microorganisms. The predominantly microbiostatic activity of TTO is 
probably related to terpinen-4-ol associated with terpinene. The oil at MIC 
value was able to delay the log phase of Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans 
growth. Fibroblasts (L929) viability remained above 70 % during 24 h for TTO 
concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 0.0625 mg/ml. TTO-CH combination showed a 
synergistic activity (FIC = 0.5) against A. actinomycetemcomitans and 
Streptococcus sanguinis, at a concentration of 0,25MIC for both species. The 
compounds at MIC concentration inhibited both monospecies and mixed-species 
biofilms studied bacteria to the same extent as the azithromycin control.
CONCLUSION: TTO and CH demonstrated efficacy in combating oral pathogens and 
TTO-CH combination offers a promising approach to confront microbial resistance 
in the oral environment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2024.107006
PMID: 39401687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Ana Carolina Morais Apolonio 
reports financial support was provided by Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do 
Estado de Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG- APQ-01165-22). If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Heliyon. 2024 Sep 30;10(19):e38723. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38723. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 15.

Characterization of microbiome, resistome, mobilome, and virulome in anoxic and 
oxic wastewater treatment processes in Slovakia and Taiwan.

Chen WY(1), Lee CP(1), Pavlović J(2), Pangallo D(2), Wu JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, 
Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovakia.

This study presents a comprehensive analysis of samples from urban wastewater 
treatment plants using anoxic/oxic processes in Slovakia and Taiwan, focusing on 
microbiome, resistome, mobilome, and virulome, which were analyzed using a 
shotgun metagenomic approach. Distinct characteristics were observed; in Taiwan, 
a higher abundance and diversity of antibiotic resistance genes were found in 
both influent and effluent samples, while there was a higher prevalence of 
mobile genetic elements and virulence factor genes in Slovakia. Variations were 
noted in microbial community structures; influent samples in Taiwan were 
reflected from fecal and hospital sources, and those in Slovakia were derived 
from environmental elements. At the genus level, the samples from Taiwan's 
sewage treatment plants were dominated by Cloacibacterium and Bacteroides, while 
Acinetobacter was predominant in samples from Slovakia. Despite similar 
antibiotic usage patterns, distinct wastewater characteristics and operational 
disparities influenced microbiome, resistome, mobilome, and virulome 
compositions, with limited reduction of most resistance genes by the studied 
anoxic/oxic processes. These findings underscore the importance of 
region-specific insights into microbial communities for understanding the 
dynamics of antimicrobial resistance and pathogenicity in urban wastewater 
treatment systems. Such insights may lay the groundwork for optimizing treatment 
processes and reducing the dissemination of antibiotic resistance and 
pathogenicity genes for safeguarding public health.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e38723
PMCID: PMC11471163
PMID: 39397942

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.

1. World J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2024 Oct 14;40(11):347. doi: 
10.1007/s11274-024-04153-1.

Comprehensive characterization and resistome analysis of Antarctic Pseudomonas 
migulae strain CAS19.

Otur Ç(1), Okay S(2), Konuksever Ö(1), Duyar O(1), Kaya Y(1), Kurt-Kızıldoğan 
A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ondokuz 
Mayıs University, Samsun, 55139, Türkiye.
(2)Department of Vaccine Technology, Vaccine Institute, Hacettepe University, 
Ankara, 06230, Türkiye. sezerokay@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ondokuz 
Mayıs University, Samsun, 55139, Türkiye. aslihan.kizildogan@omu.edu.tr.

Although traditionally considered pristine, Antarctica faces an increasing 
threat of antibiotic resistance due to human intervention. Here, we obtained a 
bacterial isolate, the CAS19 strain, from a lake water sample from Ardley 
Island, Antarctica and characterized it comprehensively. The CAS19 was a 
psychrotrophic and neutrophilic/alkalitolerant bacterium thriving at 
temperatures from 15 to 33 °C and pH levels from 6.0 to 9.0. Besides the 
production of siderophore and indole acetic acid, it also exhibited proteolytic 
and lipolytic activities. It was identified as Pseudomonas migulae by multilocus 
(16S rRNA, gyrB, rpoB and rpoD) sequence analysis, and its genome was 6.5 Mbps 
in length, had 59% GC content, and contained 5,821 coding sequences. The CAS19 
was resistant to several antibiotics, including trimethoprim, penicillin, 
vancomycin, and erythromycin, confirmed by RT-qPCR analysis, with a notable 
increase in dfr (63-fold), bla (461-fold), vanW (31.7-fold) and macA (24.7-fold) 
expressions upon antibiotic exposure. Additionally, CAS19 exhibited resistance 
to heavy metals with an order of Cr(III) = Cu(II) > Ni(II) > Zn(II) > Cd(II), 
and showed diesel fuel (5%) degradation capacity. Cold-related genes cspA_2 and 
cspD were overexpressed at 4 and 15 °C, consistent with the cold adaptation 
mechanism. In conclusion, for the first time an Antarctic P. migulae isolate has 
been characterized in detail, uncovering a rich resistome repertoir that might 
be associated with anthropogenic disturbances.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11274-024-04153-1
PMID: 39397126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Antimicrob Resist Infect Control. 2024 Oct 14;13(1):125. doi: 
10.1186/s13756-024-01482-6.

Drug-resistance characteristics, genetic diversity, and transmission dynamics of 
multidrug-resistant or rifampicin-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis from 2019 
to 2021 in Sichuan, China.

Gao W(1), Wang W(1), Li J(1), Gao Y(1), Zhang S(1), Lei H(1), He L(1), Li T(1), 
He J(2).

Author information:
(1)Sichuan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Institute for Tuberculosis 
Control and Prevention, Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, China.
(2)Sichuan Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Institute for Tuberculosis 
Control and Prevention, Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, China. hejinge@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Multidrug- or rifampicin-resistant tuberculosis (TB; MDR/RR-TB) is a 
significant public health threat. However, the mechanisms involved in its 
transmission in Sichuan, China are unclear. To provide a scientific basis for 
MDR/RR-TB control and prevention, we investigated the drug-resistance 
characteristics, genetic diversity, and transmission dynamics and analyzed the 
demographic and clinical characteristics of patients to identify risk factors 
for the acquisition of MDR/RR-TB in Sichuan, Western China.
METHODS: Whole-genome sequencing was performed using a sample comprised of all 
MDR/RR-TB strains isolated from patients with pulmonary TB (≥ 15 years) at the 
22 surveillance sites in Sichuan province between January 2019 and December 
2021, to analyze genotypic drug resistance and genetic diversity. Moreover, we 
performed statistical analyses of the epidemiological characteristics and risk 
factors associated with the transmission dynamics of MDR/RR-TB.
RESULTS: The final analysis included 278 MDR/RR TB strains. Lineage 2.2, the 
major sub-lineage, accounted for 82.01% (228/278) of isolates, followed by 
lineage 4.5 (9.72%, 27/278), lineage 4.4 (6.83%, 19/278), and lineage 4.2 
(1.44%, 4/278). The drug resistance rates, ranging from high to low, were as 
follows: isoniazid (229 [82.37%]), streptomycin (177 [63.67%]), ethambutol (144 
[51.80%]), pyrazinamide (PZA, 119 [42.81%]), fluoroquinolones (FQs, 93 
[33.45%]). Further, the clofazimine, bedaquiline, and delamanid resistance rates 
were 2.88, 2.88, and 1.04%, respectively. The gene composition cluster rate was 
32.37% (90/278). In addition, 83.81% (233/278) of MDR/RR-TB cases were 
determined to be likely caused by transmission. Finally, patients infected with 
lineage two strains and strains with the KatG S315T amino acid substitution 
presented a higher risk of MDR/RR-TB transmission.
CONCLUSION: Transmission plays a significant role in the MDR/RR-TB burden in 
Sichuan province, and lineage 2 strains and strains harboring KatG S315T have a 
high probability of transmission. Further, high levels of FQ and PZA drug 
resistance suggest an urgent need for drug susceptibility testing prior to 
designing therapeutic regimens. New anti-TB drugs need to be used standardly and 
TB strains should be regularly monitored for resistance to these drugs.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13756-024-01482-6
PMCID: PMC11472436
PMID: 39396971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 11;14(1):23789. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-73034-2.

Therapeutic potential of compound extract from Dracocephalum Rupestre Hance and 
Berberidis Radix against Salmonella-induced lamb diarrhea.

Ban D(#)(1), GeSang Z(#)(1), Fan Y(2), Fu G(2), Yang H(2), Si L(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Animal Science, Tibet Academy of Agricultural and Animal 
Husbandry Sciences, No. 56 Duodi Road, Lasa, 850000, Tibet, China.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Yunnan Agricultural University, No. 452 
Fengyuan Road, Panlong District, Kunming, 650201, China.
(3)Institute of Animal Science, Tibet Academy of Agricultural and Animal 
Husbandry Sciences, No. 56 Duodi Road, Lasa, 850000, Tibet, China. 
40089378@qq.com.
(4)Institute of Grassland Science, Tibet Academy of Agricultural and Animal 
Husbandry Sciences, No. 56 Duodi Road, Lasa, 850000, Tibet, China. 
40089378@qq.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Lamb diarrhea is primarily induced by bacterial infections, causing great 
economic and health challenges. Traditional antibiotic treatments raise concerns 
over drug resistance and environmental contamination. We explored the 
therapeutic potential of a compound extract from Dracocephalum rupestre Hance 
and Berberidis Radix against Salmonella-induced diarrhea in lamb. Twenty-five 
five-week-old Kunming mice (20 ± 5 g) were used. A controlled laboratory 
experiment, combing histological examinations, serum cytokine level analysis, 
gut microbiota composition analysis, and short-chain fatty acid quantification 
were conducted. Results demonstrated significant reparative effects on 
intestinal mucosal damage of the compound. Compound treatment notably reduced 
serum levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, sigA, and TNF-α), indicating 
an anti-inflammatory effect. Gene expression analysis of mucosal repair markers 
(PCNA, TGF, and EGFR) confirmed the positive impacts on intestinal recovery 
processes after treatment. Microbiota analysis revealed concentration-dependent 
alterations in gut microbial composition, with a notable increase in beneficial 
bacterial genera such as Muribaculum and Prevotella, suggesting the role of the 
compound in promoting gut health. Additionally, short-chain fatty acid analysis 
indicated an increase in beneficial acids, which are critical for the gut and 
overall health. This investigation highlights the potential therapeutic benefits 
of Dracocephalum rupestre Hance combining Berberidis Radix in lamb with 
Salmonella-induced diarrhea.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-73034-2
PMCID: PMC11470057
PMID: 39394233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Int J Biol Macromol. 2024 Nov;281(Pt 1):136488. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136488. Epub 2024 Oct 10.

Functions and mechanisms of nonstarch polysaccharides in monogastric animal 
production.

Fu J(1), Zhao J(2), Shang H(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Forestry and Grassland Science, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China.
(2)Department of Animal Science, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville 72701, 
USA.
(3)College of Forestry and Grassland Science, Jilin Agricultural University, 
Changchun 130118, China; Jilin Provincial Key Laboratory of Tree and Grass 
Genetics and Breeding, Jilin Agricultural University, Changchun 130118, China. 
Electronic address: shanghongmei@jlau.edu.cn.

As natural active ingredients, polysaccharides are a class of biological 
macromolecules that are ubiquitous in living organisms and have antibacterial, 
antioxidant, antitumor and intestinal flora-regulating functions. Nonstarch 
polysaccharides (NSPs) are an important class of polysaccharides that include 
both soluble and insoluble nonstarch polysaccharides. As green feed additives, 
NSPs play important roles in promoting immunity and disease resistance in the 
body, regulating the intestinal microbial balance and improving the quality of 
animal products. NSPs regulate cell signal transduction mainly via interactions 
between short-chain fatty acids and G protein-coupled receptors and inhibiting 
the histone deacetylation pathway to protect the intestinal barrier in animals. 
In this paper, the composition, physiological functions, and molecular 
mechanisms of the gut protective effects of NSPs are reviewed to provide a 
reference for the application of NSPs in monogastric animal production.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2024.136488
PMID: 39393723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Front Microbiol. 2024 Sep 26;15:1469414. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2024.1469414. 
eCollection 2024.

Periodontitis: etiology, conventional treatments, and emerging bacteriophage and 
predatory bacteria therapies.

Łasica A(1), Golec P(2), Laskus A(3), Zalewska M(4), Gędaj M(1), Popowska M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacterial Genetics, Institute of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Molecular Virology, Institute of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Triodent Dental Clinic, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Bacterial Physiology, Institute of Microbiology, Faculty of 
Biology, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland.

Inflammatory periodontal diseases associated with the accumulation of dental 
biofilm, such as gingivitis and periodontitis, are very common and pose clinical 
problems for clinicians and patients. Gingivitis is a mild form of gum disease 
and when treated quickly and properly is completely reversible. Periodontitis is 
an advanced and irreversible disease of the periodontium with periods of 
exacerbations, progressions and remission. Periodontitis is a chronic 
inflammatory condition that damages the tissues supporting the tooth in its 
socket, i.e., the gums, periodontal ligaments, root cementum and bone. 
Periodontal inflammation is most commonly triggered by bacteria present in 
excessive accumulations of dental plaque (biofilm) on tooth surfaces. This 
disease is driven by disproportionate host inflammatory immune responses induced 
by imbalance in the composition of oral bacteria and changes in their metabolic 
activities. This microbial dysbiosis favors the establishment of inflammatory 
conditions and ultimately results in the destruction of tooth-supporting 
tissues. Apart microbial shift and host inflammatory response, environmental 
factors and genetics are also important in etiology In addition to oral tissues 
destruction, periodontal diseases can also result in significant systemic 
complications. Conventional methods of periodontal disease treatment (improving 
oral hygiene, dental biofilm control, mechanical plaque removal, using local or 
systemic antimicrobial agents) are not fully effective. All this prompts the 
search for new methods of therapy. Advanced periodontitis with multiple 
abscesses is often treated with antibiotics, such as amoxicillin, tetracycline, 
doxycycline, minocycline, clindamycin, or combined therapy of amoxicillin with 
metronidazole. However, due to the growing problem of antibiotic resistance, 
treatment does not always achieve the desired therapeutic effect. This review 
summarizes pathogenesis, current approaches in treatment, limitations of therapy 
and the current state of research on the possibility of application of 
bacteriophages and predatory bacteria to combat bacteria responsible for 
periodontitis. We present the current landscape of potential applications for 
alternative therapies for periodontitis based on phages and bacteria, and 
highlight the gaps in existing knowledge that need to be addressed before 
clinical trials utilizing these therapeutic strategies can be seriously 
considered.

Copyright © 2024 Łasica, Golec, Laskus, Zalewska, Gędaj and Popowska.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2024.1469414
PMCID: PMC11464445
PMID: 39391608

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 1):125087. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125087.  Epub 2024 Oct 8.

Antibiotic resistance genes are transferred from manure-contaminated water 
bodies to the gut microbiota of animals through the food chain.

Wang C(1), Song Y(1), Liang J(1), Wang Y(1), Zhang D(1), Zhao Z(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Institute of Life Science and Green Development, 
Hebei University, Baoding, Hebei, China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Institute of Life Science and Green Development, 
Hebei University, Baoding, Hebei, China. Electronic address: 
zhaozhao2005001@163.com.

Fecal-contaminated water may enter the food chain and become an important route 
for the transmission of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) to the human 
microbiome. However, little is known about the spread of ARGs from fecal 
contamination in water bodies along the aquatic food chain. In this study, 
laboratory-raised Daphnia magna and Aristichthys nobilis were used to 
investigate the effects of the addition of manure on target ARGs in water and 
their intestinal contents to determine the potential transmission route of ARGs 
in the aquatic food chain system. The abundance of target ARGs in water as well 
as D. magna and A. nobilis intestinal contents significantly increased when 
fecal contamination was present. ARGs bioaccumulated along the food chain, with 
four ARGs (tetM-01, tetX, qnrS, and sul2) detected regularly. Mn and Cr were key 
environmental factors that promoted the transfer of ARGs along the food chain. 
Fecal addition significantly changed the structure of microbial communities in 
water, D. magna gut, and A. nobilis gut. The ARG spectrum was significantly 
correlated with the composition and structure of the bacterial community. 
Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes were identified as the main host 
bacteria and were likely to act as carriers of ARGs to promote the spread of 
antibiotic resistance in the food chain. The composition and structure of 
bacterial communities, along with mobile genetic elements, were two key drivers 
of ARG transfer. These findings provide new insights into the distribution and 
spread of ARGs along the freshwater food chain.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125087
PMID: 39383990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Antimicrob Resist Infect Control. 2024 Oct 8;13(1):119. doi: 
10.1186/s13756-024-01474-6.

Can probiotics trigger a paradigm shift for cleaning healthcare environments? A 
narrative review.

Denkel LA(1)(2), Voss A(3), Caselli E(4), Dancer SJ(5), Leistner R(6)(7)(8), 
Gastmeier P(6)(7), Widmer AF(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Hindenburgdamm 27, 12203, Berlin, 
Germany. luisa.denkel@charite.de.
(2)National Reference Center for the Surveillance of Nosocomial Infections, 
Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, 
Germany. luisa.denkel@charite.de.
(3)Department of Medical Microbiology and Infection Control, University Medical 
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Section of Microbiology, Department of Chemical, Pharmaceutical, and 
Agricultural Sciences, University of Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.
(5)NHS Lanarkshire & Edinburgh Napier University, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, Charité Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Hindenburgdamm 27, 12203, Berlin, 
Germany.
(7)National Reference Center for the Surveillance of Nosocomial Infections, 
Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, 
Germany.
(8)Department of Gastroenterology, Infectious Diseases and Rheumatology, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität Berlin, 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin and Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, Germany.
(9)Faculty of Medicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland.
(10)Swissnoso - Swiss National Center for Infection Prevention, Bern, 
Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The environment of healthcare institutions plays a major role in the 
transmission of multidrug resistant organisms (MDRO) and likely in subsequent 
healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). Probiotic cleaning products are a novel 
option for environmental cleaning. They represent a sustainable and 
biodegradable alternative to conventional chemical disinfectants for controlling 
microbial bioburden, and preventing pathogen transmission in hospital 
environments. High-quality studies including randomized clinical trials (RCT) 
triggered a summary with expert recommendations until further studies allow a 
critical review and meta-analysis of the data.
METHODS: Infection control experts from five European countries summarized 
available data as of June 2023. Authors presented their published RCTs, reviewed 
the existing literature on probiotic cleaning, summarized the results and 
identified knowledge gaps and subsequent research needs.
RESULTS: Probiotic cleaning was similarly effective for reducing HAI-related 
pathogens, enveloped viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 and MDRO in environmental 
samples compared to conventional chemical disinfectants. More importantly, 
probiotic cleaning was non-inferior to disinfectants in terms of preventing HAI 
in a large RCT. In addition, probiotic cleaning has also been shown to reduce 
antimicrobial resistance genes (ARG), costs and antimicrobial consumption in 
other hospital trials. They are biodegradable, do not require any protection for 
chemical hazards, and are compliant with occupational health. A paradigm shift, 
however, requires a very strong evidence to justify for such a change. In the 
past, this evidence was limited by the heterogeneity of study design, products, 
protocols, and few studies on clinical outcomes used in the trials. Furthermore, 
the regulatory, safety, and quality aspects of probiotic cleaning products are 
not, yet, completely defined and require clearing by authorities.
CONCLUSION: To date, probiotic cleaning is a breakthrough technology and a 
biological alternative for chemical disinfectant when treating hospital 
environment. It may also have a positive effect on MDRO transmission. However, 
the different compositions of probiotic products will require standardization, 
and more robust data should be generated to support these promising results on 
different compositions. This may trigger a paradigm shift in cleaning of 
healthcare institutions from chemical to biological control of the hospital 
environment.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13756-024-01474-6
PMCID: PMC11462747
PMID: 39380032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest to declare: This workshop 
was financially supported by Chrisal / Heiq. LAD and AW are members of the 
editorial board of the journal Antimicrobial Resistance & Infection Control. On 
behalf of all authors, the corresponding author states that there are no further 
conflicts of interest.

1. Genome Biol Evol. 2024 Nov 1;16(11):evae209. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evae209.

Microbiome Geographic Population Structure (mGPS) Detects Fine-Scale Geography.

Zhang Y(1), McCarthy L(2), Ruff E(3), Elhaik E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Lund University, Lund 22362, Sweden.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Sheffield University, Sheffield S3 7RH, UK.
(3)Ecosystems Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA, USA.

Over the past decade, sequencing data generated by large microbiome projects 
showed that taxa exhibit patchy geographical distribution, raising questions 
about the geospatial dynamics that shape natural microbiomes and the spread of 
antimicrobial resistance genes. Answering these questions requires 
distinguishing between local and nonlocal microorganisms and identifying the 
source sites for the latter. Predicting the source sites and migration routes of 
microbiota has been envisioned for decades but was hampered by the lack of data, 
tools, and understanding of the processes governing biodiversity. 
State-of-the-art biogeographical tools suffer from low resolution and cannot 
predict biogeographical patterns at a scale relevant to ecological, medical, or 
epidemiological applications. Analyzing urban, soil, and marine microorganisms, 
we found that some taxa exhibit regional-specific composition and abundance, 
suggesting they can be used as biogeographical biomarkers. We developed the 
microbiome geographic population structure, a machine learning-based tool that 
utilizes microbial relative sequence abundances to yield a fine-scale source 
site for microorganisms. Microbiome geographic population structure predicted 
the source city for 92% of the samples and the within-city source for 82% of the 
samples, though they were often only a few hundred meters apart. Microbiome 
geographic population structure also predicted soil and marine sampling sites 
for 86% and 74% of the samples, respectively. We demonstrated that microbiome 
geographic population structure differentiated local from nonlocal 
microorganisms and used it to trace the global spread of antimicrobial 
resistance genes. Microbiome geographic population structure's ability to 
localize samples to their water body, country, city, and transit stations opens 
new possibilities in tracing microbiomes and has applications in forensics, 
medicine, and epidemiology.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evae209
PMCID: PMC11557374
PMID: 39373631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.E. is a cofounder of Anath Genomic Consultants 
AB.

1. Environ Res. 2024 Dec 15;263(Pt 2):120109. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120109. 
Epub 2024 Oct 5.

The simultaneous addition of chitosan and peat enhanced the removals of 
antibiotics resistance genes during biogas residues composting.

Ye J(1), Liu X(2), Khalid M(3), Li X(4), Romantschuk M(5), Bian Y(6), Li C(7), 
Zhang J(8), Zhao C(9), Wu J(10), Hua Y(11), Chen W(12), Hui N(13).

Author information:
(1)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Pudong Development (Group) CO., 
Ltd., Zhangyang Road 699, 200122, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
yejieqi@sjtu.edu.cn.
(2)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Yangtze River Delta 
Eco-Environmental Change and Management Observation and Research Station, 
Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Education, 800 Dongchuan Rd., 
200240, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Urban Forest Ecosystem Research Station, 
National Forestry and Grassland Administration, 800 Dongchuan Rd., 200240, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: xinxin.liu@sjtu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Biology, College of Science and Technology, Wenzhou-Kean 
University, Wenzhou, China. Electronic address: Kmuhamma@kean.edu.
(4)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
lixiaoxiao1995@sjtu.edu.cn.
(5)Faculty of Biological and Environmental Science, University of Helsinki, 
Niemenkatu 73, 15240, Lahti, Finland. Electronic address: 
martin.romantschuk@helsinki.fi.
(6)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
bianyucheng@sjtu.edu.cn.
(7)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
19891213@sjtu.edu.cn.
(8)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
200210271027@sjtu.edu.cn.
(9)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
changzhao@sjtu.edu.cn.
(10)Shanghai Pudong Development (Group) CO., Ltd., Zhangyang Road 699, 200122, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: bdwq2021@126.com.
(11)Shanghai Pudong Development (Group) CO., Ltd., Zhangyang Road 699, 200122, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: pdhyf1970@126.com.
(12)Shanghai Pudong Development (Group) CO., Ltd., Zhangyang Road 699, 200122, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: bhunilvf@126.com.
(13)School of Agriculture and Biology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 800 
Dongchuan Rd., 200240, Shanghai, China; Faculty of Biological and Environmental 
Science, University of Helsinki, Niemenkatu 73, 15240, Lahti, Finland; Yunnan 
Dali Research Institute, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Dali, China. Electronic 
address: nan.hui@sjtu.edu.cn.

Direct reuse of biogas residue (BR) has the potential to contribute to the 
dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). Although high-temperature 
composting has been demonstrated as an effective method for the harmless 
treatment of organic waste, there is few researches on the fate of ARGs in 
high-temperature composting of BR. This research examined the impact of adding 
5% chitosan and 15% peat on physicochemical characteristics, microbial 
communities, and removal of ARGs during BR-straw composting in 12 Biolan 220L 
composters for 48 days. Our results showed that the simultaneous addition of 
chitosan and peat extended the high-temperature period, and increased the 
highest temperature to 74 °C and germination index. These effects could be 
attributed to the presence of thermophilic cellulose-decomposing genera 
(Thermomyces and Thermobifida). Although the microbial communities differed 
compositionally among temperature stages, their dissimilarity drastically 
reduced at final stage, indicating that the impact of different treatments on 
microbial community composition decreases at the end of composting. Peat had a 
greater impact on aerobic genera capable of cellulose degradation at 
thermophilic stage than chitosan. Surprisingly, despite the total copy number of 
ARGs significantly decreased during composting, especially in the treatment with 
both chitosan and peat, intl1 gene abundance significantly increased 2 logs at 
thermophilic stage and maintained high level in the final compost, suggesting 
there is still a potential risk of transmission and proliferation of ARGs. Our 
work shed some lights on the development of waste resource utilization and 
emerging contaminants removal technology.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.120109
PMID: 39369780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2024 Oct 3. doi: 10.1111/jdv.20366. Online ahead
 of print.

Hand eczema and changes in the skin microbiome after 2 weeks of topical 
corticosteroid treatment.

Nørreslet LB(1)(2), Ingham AC(3), Agner T(1), Olesen CM(1), Bregnhøj A(4), 
Sommerlund M(4), Andersen PS(3), Stegger M(3)(5), Mørtz CG(2), Edslev SM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Bispebjerg Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen NV, Denmark.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Center, Odense University Hospital, 
Odense C, Denmark.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics, Statens Serum Institute, Copenhagen S, Denmark.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark.
(5)Antimicrobial Resistance and Infectious Diseases Laboratory, Harry Butler 
Institute, Murdoch University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

BACKGROUND: More than 50% of patients with hand eczema (HE) are colonized with 
Staphylococcus aureus. Comprehensive knowledge of the skin microbiome and its 
changes in patients with HE may provide insights into future potential 
therapeutical targets.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the skin microbiome in patients with moderate-to-severe 
chronic HE and assess its changes following treatment with topical 
corticosteroids (TCS).
METHODS: Bacterial samples were collected from lesional and nonlesional skin 
before and after 2 weeks of TCS treatment using ESwabs and analysed by 16S rRNA 
and tuf gene sequencing. Clinically, the disease severity was assessed by the 
Hand Eczema Severity Index (HECSI).
RESULTS: A cohort of 31 patients with HE were included and followed up. Compared 
to nonlesional skin, lesional skin differed in overall bacterial community 
composition (p = 0.02), displayed higher relative abundance of Staphylococcus, 
in particular S. aureus (p = 0.01) and lower abundance of Micrococcus 
(p = 0.02). As disease severity improved with treatment, these microbial 
characteristics on lesional skin shifted towards that of nonlesional skin on the 
hands.
CONCLUSION: The bacterial skin microbiome was altered in lesions of HE and 
partly driven by S. aureus colonization, however, shifted towards nonlesional 
skin following treatment. Our results emphasize the future possibilities for 
anti-S. aureus treatment strategies.

© 2024 The Author(s). Journal of the European Academy of Dermatology and 
Venereology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of European Academy of 
Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.20366
PMID: 39360671

1. Microbiome. 2024 Oct 2;12(1):188. doi: 10.1186/s40168-024-01903-z.

A single amplified genome catalog reveals the dynamics of mobilome and resistome 
in the human microbiome.

Kawano-Sugaya T(#)(1), Arikawa K(#)(1)(2), Saeki T(1), Endoh T(1), Kamata K(1), 
Matsuhashi A(1), Hosokawa M(3)(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)bitBiome, Inc., 513 Wasedatsurumaki-Cho, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 162-0041, Japan.
(2)Department of Life Science and Medical Bioscience, Waseda University, 2-2 
Wakamatsu-Cho, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 162-8480, Japan.
(3)bitBiome, Inc., 513 Wasedatsurumaki-Cho, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 162-0041, Japan. 
masahito.hosokawa@bitbiome.co.jp.
(4)Department of Life Science and Medical Bioscience, Waseda University, 2-2 
Wakamatsu-Cho, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 162-8480, Japan. 
masahito.hosokawa@bitbiome.co.jp.
(5)Computational Bio Big-Data Open Innovation Laboratory, National Institute of 
Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 3-4-1 Okubo, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 
169-8555, Japan. masahito.hosokawa@bitbiome.co.jp.
(6)Institute for Advanced Research of Biosystem Dynamics, Waseda Research 
Institute for Science and Engineering, 3-4-1 Okubo, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 
169-8555, Japan. masahito.hosokawa@bitbiome.co.jp.
(7)Research Organization for Nano and Life Innovation, Waseda University, 513 
Wasedatsurumaki-Cho, Shinjuku-Ku, Tokyo, 162-0041, Japan. 
masahito.hosokawa@bitbiome.co.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The increase in metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) has advanced our 
understanding of the functional characterization and taxonomic assignment within 
the human microbiome. However, MAGs, as population consensus genomes, often 
aggregate heterogeneity among species and strains, thereby obfuscating the 
precise relationships between microbial hosts and mobile genetic elements 
(MGEs). In contrast, single amplified genomes (SAGs) derived via single-cell 
genome sequencing can capture individual genomic content, including MGEs.
RESULTS: We introduce the first substantial SAG dataset (bbsag20) from the human 
oral and gut microbiome, comprising 17,202 SAGs above medium-quality without 
co-assembly. This collection unveils a diversity of bacterial lineages across 
312 oral and 647 gut species, demonstrating different taxonomic compositions 
from MAGs. Moreover, the SAGs showed cellular-level evidence of the 
translocation of oral bacteria to the gut. We also identified broad-host-range 
MGEs harboring antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), which were not detected in 
the MAGs.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference in taxonomic composition between SAGs and MAGs 
indicates that combining both methods would be effective in expanding the genome 
catalog. By connecting mobilomes and resistomes in individual samples, SAGs 
could meticulously chart a dynamic network of ARGs on MGEs, pinpointing 
potential ARG reservoirs and their spreading patterns in the microbial 
community. Video Abstract.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-024-01903-z
PMCID: PMC11446047
PMID: 39358771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: MH is a founder and shareholder in bitBiome, 
Inc., which provides single-cell genomics services using the SAG-gel workflow as 
bit-MAP. TKS, KA, TS, TE, KK, and AM are employed at bitBiome, Inc. MH, TS, TE, 
KK, and KA are inventors on patent applications submitted by bitBiome, Inc., 
covering the technique for single-cell sequencing.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 1;954:176618. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176618.  Epub 2024 Sep 29.

Distribution of tetracyclines and sulfonamides resistance genes around a 
smallholder pig farm: Modeling and attribution.

Li H(1), Liu Z(2), Hu B(3), Zhu L(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China; Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Organic Pollution Process 
and Control, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China. Electronic address: 
22114033@zju.edu.cn.
(2)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China. Electronic address: liuzishu@zju.edu.cn.
(3)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China. Electronic address: blhu@zju.edu.cn.
(4)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China; Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Organic Pollution Process 
and Control, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China; Key Laboratory of 
Environment Remediation and Ecological Health, Ministry, College of 
Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, 
China. Electronic address: zlz@zju.edu.cn.

Livestock farm is a major source of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance genes 
(ARGs) pollution. ARGs can directly enter the environment through runoff and air 
deposition. The impact extent and the driving factors require further 
investigation to inform effective policies and actions to mitigate their spread. 
This study investigated a smallholder pig farm and its surrounding areas to 
understand the spread of ARGs. Topsoil samples were collected from 56 different 
sites within one kilometer of the farm, and a comprehensive analysis was 
conducted to reveal effects of soil properties, antibiotic residues, microbiome, 
mobilome on the variation of typical ARGs. The results confirmed that the ARGs 
reduced exponentially with increasing distance from the farm, with a goodness of 
fit (R2) of 0.7 for total ARGs. For tetracyclines (TC) and sulfonamides (SA) 
resistance genes, the fitting R2 exceeded 0.9. Model estimates allowed for 
quantitative comparisons of in-farm increments, out-farm background levels, and 
spread abilities of ARGs with distinct resistance mechanisms. SA-specific 
resistance genes (SRGs, 0.097 copies/16S rRNA gene) and TC-specific resistance 
genes (TRGs, 0.036 copies/16S rRNA gene) showed higher within-farm increases 
compared to multidrug resistance genes (MDRGs, 0.020 copies/16S rRNA gene). 
MDRGs, however, had a higher background level and a greater impact distance 
(0.18 km, 4.4 times the farm radius). Additionally spread abilities of TRGs 
varied by resistance mechanism, with ribosome protection proteins showing 
greater spread than TC inactivating enzymes and TC efflux pumps, likely due to 
different fitness costs. Correlation analysis and structural equation modeling 
indicated that changes in bacterial community composition and mobilome are 
primary factors influencing ARGs variation during their spread. Abiotic factors 
like soil nutrients and antibiotics also selectively enriched ARGs within the 
farm. These findings provide insights into the ARGs dissemination and could 
inform strategies to prevent their spread from smallholder livestock farms.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176618
PMID: 39353488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Water Res. 2024 Dec 1;267:122523. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2024.122523. Epub 2024
 Sep 26.

Interactions between microplastics and organic contaminants: The microbial 
mechanisms for priming effects of organic compounds on microplastic 
biodegradation.

Chen Z(1), Sun W(2), Wang S(3), Yang J(1), Huang W(1), Huang D(4), Jiang K(5), 
Zhang X(6), Sun X(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Environment, Key Laboratory of Yellow River and Huai River Water 
Environment and Pollution Control, Ministry of Education, Henan Normal 
University, Xinxiang 453007, China; National-Regional Joint Engineering Research 
Center for Soil Pollution Control and Remediation in South China, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory of Integrated Agro-environmental Pollution Control and Management, 
Institute of Eco-environmental and Soil Sciences, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou 510650, China; Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory for 
Environmental Pollution and Control, Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 510640, China.
(2)National-Regional Joint Engineering Research Center for Soil Pollution 
Control and Remediation in South China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated 
Agro-environmental Pollution Control and Management, Institute of 
Eco-environmental and Soil Sciences, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 
510650, China; Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory for Environmental 
Pollution and Control, Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guangzhou 510640, China. Electronic address: wmsun@soil.gd.cn.
(3)National-Regional Joint Engineering Research Center for Soil Pollution 
Control and Remediation in South China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated 
Agro-environmental Pollution Control and Management, Institute of 
Eco-environmental and Soil Sciences, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 
510650, China; Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory for Environmental 
Pollution and Control, Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guangzhou 510640, China; School of Environmental and Municipal 
Engineering, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an, 710055, 
China.
(4)National-Regional Joint Engineering Research Center for Soil Pollution 
Control and Remediation in South China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated 
Agro-environmental Pollution Control and Management, Institute of 
Eco-environmental and Soil Sciences, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 
510650, China; Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory for Environmental 
Pollution and Control, Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guangzhou 510640, China; College of Environmental Science and 
Engineering, Hunan University, Changsha 410082, China.
(5)School of Environment, Key Laboratory of Yellow River and Huai River Water 
Environment and Pollution Control, Ministry of Education, Henan Normal 
University, Xinxiang 453007, China.
(6)School of Environment, Key Laboratory of Yellow River and Huai River Water 
Environment and Pollution Control, Ministry of Education, Henan Normal 
University, Xinxiang 453007, China. Electronic address: xinzhang@htu.edu.cn.
(7)National-Regional Joint Engineering Research Center for Soil Pollution 
Control and Remediation in South China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Integrated 
Agro-environmental Pollution Control and Management, Institute of 
Eco-environmental and Soil Sciences, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, Guangzhou 
510650, China; Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Joint Laboratory for Environmental 
Pollution and Control, Guangzhou Institute of Geochemistry, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Guangzhou 510640, China. Electronic address: xxsun@soil.gd.cn.

The co-presence of plastics and other organic contaminants is pervasive in 
various ecosystems, particularly in areas with intensive anthropogenic 
activities. Their interactions inevitably impact the composition and functions 
of the plastisphere microbiome, which in turn determines the trajectory of these 
contaminants. Antibiotics are a group of organic contaminants that warrant 
particular attention due to their wide presence in environments and significant 
potential to disseminate antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) within the 
plastisphere. Therefore, this study investigated the impacts of sulfadiazine 
(SDZ), a prevalent environmental antibiotic, on the composition and function of 
the plastisphere microbial community inhabiting micro-polyethylene (mPE), one of 
the most common microplastic contaminants. Our findings indicated that the 
presence of SDZ increased the overall plastisphere microbial abundance and 
enriched populations that are capable of degrading both SDZ and mPE. The 
abundance of Aquabacterium, a dominant plastisphere population that is capable 
of degrading both SDZ and mPE, increased over the course of SDZ exposure, while 
another abundant mPE-degrading population, Ketobacter, remained stable. 
Accordingly, the removal of SDZ was enhanced in the presence of mPE. Moreover, 
the results further revealed that not only SDZ but also other labile organic 
contaminants (e.g., aniline and hexane) could accelerate mPE biodegradation 
through a priming effect. This investigation underscores the complex dynamics 
among microplastics, organic contaminants, and the plastisphere microbiome, 
offering insights into the environmental fate of plastic and antibiotic 
pollutants.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2024.122523
PMID: 39353345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Front Immunol. 2024 Sep 16;15:1456030. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1456030. 
eCollection 2024.

Metabolic mediators: microbial-derived metabolites as key regulators of 
anti-tumor immunity, immunotherapy, and chemotherapy.

Lu S(1), Wang C(2), Ma J(3), Wang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, The Second Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(2)Medical Affairs Department, The Second Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, the Second Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the Second Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, China.

The human microbiome has recently emerged as a focal point in cancer research, 
specifically in anti-tumor immunity, immunotherapy, and chemotherapy. This 
review explores microbial-derived metabolites, emphasizing their crucial roles 
in shaping fundamental aspects of cancer treatment. Metabolites such as 
short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), Trimethylamine N-Oxide (TMAO), and Tryptophan 
Metabolites take the spotlight, underscoring their diverse origins and functions 
and their profound impact on the host immune system. The focus is on SCFAs' 
remarkable ability to modulate immune responses, reduce inflammation, and 
enhance anti-tumor immunity within the intricate tumor microenvironment (TME). 
The review critically evaluates TMAO, intricately tied to dietary choices and 
gut microbiota composition, assessing its implications for cancer 
susceptibility, progression, and immunosuppression. Additionally, the 
involvement of tryptophan and other amino acid metabolites in shaping immune 
responses is discussed, highlighting their influence on immune checkpoints, 
immunosuppression, and immunotherapy effectiveness. The examination extends to 
their dynamic interaction with chemotherapy, emphasizing the potential of 
microbial-derived metabolites to alter treatment protocols and optimize outcomes 
for cancer patients. A comprehensive understanding of their role in cancer 
therapy is attained by exploring their impacts on drug metabolism, therapeutic 
responses, and resistance development. In conclusion, this review underscores 
the pivotal contributions of microbial-derived metabolites in regulating 
anti-tumor immunity, immunotherapy responses, and chemotherapy outcomes. By 
illuminating the intricate interactions between these metabolites and cancer 
therapy, the article enhances our understanding of cancer biology, paving the 
way for the development of more effective treatment options in the ongoing 
battle against cancer.

Copyright © 2024 Lu, Wang, Ma and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1456030
PMCID: PMC11439727
PMID: 39351241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 1;954:176591. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176591.  Epub 2024 Sep 27.

Absence of synergistic effects between microplastics and copper ions on the 
spread of antibiotic resistance genes within aquatic bacteria at the community 
level.

Lin L(1), Sun M(2), Pan X(1), Zhang W(3), Yang Y(4), Yang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Basin Water Environmental Research Department, Changjiang River Scientific 
Research Institute, Wuhan 430014, China.
(2)China University of Geosciences (Beijing), Beijing 100083, China.
(3)Hubei Key Laboratory of Wetland Evolution & Ecological Restoration, Wuhan 
Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Danjiangkou 
Wetland Ecosystem Field Scientific Observation and Research Station, the Chinese 
Academy of Sciences & Hubei Province, Wuhan 430074, China; Key Laboratory of 
Lake and Watershed Science for Water Security, Nanjing Institute of Geography 
and Limnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China.
(4)Guizhou Normal University, Guiyang, China.
(5)Hubei Key Laboratory of Wetland Evolution & Ecological Restoration, Wuhan 
Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Danjiangkou 
Wetland Ecosystem Field Scientific Observation and Research Station, the Chinese 
Academy of Sciences & Hubei Province, Wuhan 430074, China; Key Laboratory of 
Lake and Watershed Science for Water Security, Nanjing Institute of Geography 
and Limnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing 210008, China. Electronic 
address: yangyy@wbgcas.cn.

Microplastics and copper ions (Cu2+) are favorable in accelerating the 
propagation of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in the plastisphere, however, 
their combined effects on the ARG spread within the bacterial community of the 
natural environment were less understood. The influence of microplastic types 
and Cu2+ concentrations on the horizontal gene transfer (HGT) of ARGs mediated 
by RP4 plasmid within natural bacterial communities in aquatic environments was 
investigated. Both biodegradable polybutylene succinate (PBS) and 
non-biodegradable polyvinyl chloride (PVC) microplastics significantly enhanced 
the transfer of ARGs, with PBS showing a significant higher effect compared to 
PVC. Cu2+ also increased transconjugation rates at environmentally relevant 
concentrations (5 μg L-1), but higher levels (50 μg L-1) lead to decreased rates 
due to severe bacterial cell membrane damage. The transconjugation rates in the 
presence of both microplastics and Cu2+ were lower than the sum of their 
individual effects, indicating no synergistic effects between them on 
transconjugation. Proteobacteria dominated the composition of transconjugates 
for all the treatment. Transmission electron microscope images and reactive 
oxygen species production in bacterial cells indicated that the increased 
contact frequency due to extracellular polymeric substances, combined with 
enhanced membrane permeability induced by microplastics and Cu2+, accounted for 
the increasing transconjugation rates. The study provides valuable insight into 
the potential effects of microplastics and heavy metals on the spread of ARGs 
from donors to bacterial communities in natural environments.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176591
PMID: 39343406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Gut Microbes. 2024 Jan-Dec;16(1):2396494. doi: 10.1080/19490976.2024.2396494. 
Epub 2024 Sep 28.

Bacterial extracellular vesicles at the interface of gut microbiota and 
immunity.

Melo-Marques I(1)(2), Cardoso SM(1)(2)(3), Empadinhas N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)CNC-UC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 
Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)CIBB - Centre for Innovative Biomedicine and Biotechnology, University of 
Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(3)Institute of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.

Bacterial extracellular vesicles (BEVs) are nano-sized lipid-shielded structures 
released by bacteria and that play an important role in intercellular 
communication. Their broad taxonomic origins and varying cargo compositions 
suggest their active participation in significant biological mechanisms. 
Specifically, they are involved in directly modulating microbial ecosystems, 
competing with other organisms, contributing to pathogenicity, and influencing 
the immunity of their hosts. This review examines the mechanisms that underlie 
the modulatory effects of BEVs on gut dynamics and immunity. Understanding how 
BEVs modulate microbiota composition and functional imbalances is crucial, as 
gut dysbiosis is implicated not only in the pathogenesis of various 
gastrointestinal, metabolic, and neurological diseases, but also in reducing 
resistance to colonization by enteric pathogens, which is particularly 
concerning given the current antimicrobial resistance crisis. This review 
summarizes recent advancements in the field of BEVs to encourage further 
research into these enigmatic entities. This will facilitate a better 
understanding of intra- and interkingdom communication phenomena and reveal 
promising therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1080/19490976.2024.2396494
PMCID: PMC11444517
PMID: 39340209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).

1. Microorganisms. 2024 Aug 30;12(9):1800. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms12091800.

Analysis of Cultured Gut Microbiota Using MALDI-TOF MS in COVID-19 Patients from 
Serbia during the Predominance of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant.

Patić A(1)(2), Kovačević G(1)(3), Vuković V(1)(4), Hrnjaković Cvjetković 
I(1)(2), Ristić M(1)(4), Milosavljević B(1), Medić D(1)(2), Djilas M(1), 
Radovanov J(1)(3), Kovačević A(5), Pustahija T(1)(4), Balać D(1)(6), Petrović 
V(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health of Vojvodina, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(2)Department of Microbiology with Parasitology and Immunology, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Novi Sad, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, 
21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(5)Clinic of Nephrology and Clinical Immunology, University Clinical Center of 
Vojvodina, 21000 Novi Sad, Serbia.
(6)Department of Hygiene, Faculty of Medicine, University of Novi Sad, 21000 
Novi Sad, Serbia.

The currently dominant SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant, while causing mild 
respiratory symptoms, exhibits high transmissibility, drug resistance, and 
immune evasion. We investigated whether the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 affected 
the dynamics of fecal microbial composition isolated in culture in moderate 
COVID-19 patients. Blood, stool, and medical records were collected from 50 
patients with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Two samples were taken per 
patient, at disease onset (within 5 days) and after symptom resolution (30-35 
days). The part of the gut microbiota identifiable using MALDI-TOF MS was 
analyzed, and inflammatory cytokines and blood markers were measured in serum. 
The analysis identified 566 isolates at the species level, including 83 
bacterial and 9 fungal species. Our findings indicate a change in the gut 
microbiota composition isolated in culture during the initial phase of 
infection, characterized by the proliferation of opportunistic bacteria such as 
Enterococcus spp. and Citrobacter spp., at the expense of beneficial commensal 
bacteria from the genus Bacillus and Lactobacillus. Additionally, the enrichment 
of fungal pathogens in fecal samples collected 30 days after the cessation of 
disease symptoms might suggest a prolonged disruption of the gut microbiota even 
after the resolution of COVID-19 symptoms. This study contributes to a growing 
body of evidence on the systemic effects of SARS-CoV-2 and highlights the 
importance of considering gastrointestinal involvement in the management and 
treatment of COVID-19.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms12091800
PMCID: PMC11433956
PMID: 39338474

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2024 Aug 26;13(9):808. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics13090808.

Drinking Water and Biofilm as Sources of Antimicrobial Resistance in Free-Range 
Organic Broiler Farms.

Piccirillo A(1), Tolosi R(1), Mughini-Gras L(2)(3), Kers JG(3), Laconi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Comparative Biomedicine and Food Science, University of Padua, 
Viale dell'Università 16, 35020 Legnaro, Italy.
(2)Center for Infectious Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment (RIVM), Antonie van Leeuwenhoeklaan 9, 3721 BA Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, Yalelaan 2, De Uithof, 
3584 CL Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Drinking water distribution systems (DWDSs) represent an ideal environment for 
biofilm formation, which can harbor pathogenic and antimicrobial-resistant 
bacteria. This study aimed to assess longitudinally the microbial community 
composition and antimicrobial resistance (AMR), as determined by 16S rRNA NGS 
and qPCR, respectively, in drinking water (DW) and biofilm from DWDSs, as well 
as faeces, of free-range organic broiler farms. The role of DWDSs in AMR gene 
(ARG) dissemination within the farm environment and transmission to animals, was 
also assessed. DW and biofilm microbial communities differed from those of 
faecal samples. Moreover, potentially pathogenic and opportunistic bacteria 
(e.g., Staphylococcaceae) were identified in water and biofilms. High prevalence 
and abundance of ARGs conferring resistance to carbapenems (i.e., blaNDM), 3rd 
and 4th generation cephalosporins (i.e., blaCMY-2), (fluoro)quinolones (i.e., 
qnrS), and polymyxins (i.e., mcr-3 and mcr-5) were detected in DW, biofilm, and 
faecal samples, which is of concern for both animal and human health. Although 
other factors (e.g., feed, pests, and wildlife) may contribute to the 
dissemination of AMR in free-range organic poultry farms, this study indicates 
that DWDSs can also play a role.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics13090808
PMCID: PMC11429059
PMID: 39334983

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Oct 8;58(40):17838-17849. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.4c02906. Epub 2024 Sep 27.

High-Throughput Single-Cell Metabolic Labeling, Sorting, and Sequencing of 
Active Antibiotic-Resistant Bacteria in the Environment.

Lin W(1), Li R(1)(2), Cao S(2), Li H(1), Yang K(1), Yang Z(3), Su J(1), Zhu 
YG(4), Cui L(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Lab of Urban Environment and Health, Fujian Key Laboratory of Watershed 
Ecology, Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 
361021, China.
(2)School of Marine Sciences, Guangxi University, Nanning 530004, China.
(3)School of Water, Energy and Environment, Cranfield University, Cranfield MK43 
0AL, U.K.
(4)Research Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing 100085, China.

Active antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARB) play a major role in spreading 
antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the environment; however, they have remained 
largely unexplored. Herein, we coupled bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid 
tagging with high-throughput fluorescence-activated single-cell sorting (FACS) 
and sequencing to characterize the phenome and genome of active ARB in complex 
environmental matrices. Active ARB, conferring resistance to six antibiotics 
throughout wastewater treatment, were distinguished and quantified. The 
percentage and concentration of active ARB ranged from 0.28% to 45.3% and from 
1.1 × 104 to 2.09 × 107 cells/mL, respectively. Notably, the final effluents 
retained up to 4.79 × 104 cells/mL of active ARB. Targeted FACS and genomic 
sequencing revealed a distinct taxonomic composition of active ARB compared with 
that of the overall population. The coexistence of antibiotic resistome and 
mobilome in active ARB was also identified, including three high-quality 
metagenomic assembly genomes assigned to pathogenic bacteria, highlighting the 
substantial health risks due to their activity, phenotypic resistance, mobility, 
and pathogenicity. This study advances our understanding of previously 
overlooked active ARB in the environment by linking their resistance phenotype 
to their genotype. This high-throughput method will enable efficient 
quantitative surveillance of active AMR, providing valuable insights into risk 
control and management.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.4c02906
PMID: 39333059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Cell. 2024 Oct 17;187(21):5901-5918.e28. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2024.09.009. Epub
 2024 Sep 26.

Genomic surveillance as a scalable framework for precision phage therapy against 
antibiotic-resistant pathogens.

Koncz M(1), Stirling T(2), Hadj Mehdi H(2), Méhi O(3), Eszenyi B(3), Asbóth 
A(4), Apjok G(3), Tóth Á(5), Orosz L(6), Vásárhelyi BM(3), Ari E(7), Daruka 
L(3), Polgár TF(8), Schneider G(9), Zalokh SA(3), Számel M(3), Fekete G(10), 
Bohár B(11), Nagy Varga K(3), Visnyovszki Á(12), Székely E(13), Licker MS(14), 
Izmendi O(15), Costache C(16), Gajic I(17), Lukovic B(18), Molnár S(19), 
Szőcs-Gazdi UO(20), Bozai C(21), Indreas M(22), Kristóf K(23), Van der Henst 
C(24), Breine A(24), Pál C(3), Papp B(25), Kintses B(26).

Author information:
(1)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Translational Microbiology Research Group, 
Budapesti út 9, 6728 Szeged, Hungary.
(2)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Translational Microbiology Research Group, 
Budapesti út 9, 6728 Szeged, Hungary; Doctoral School of Biology, University of 
Szeged, Dugonics tér 13, 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(3)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(4)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Translational Microbiology Research Group, 
Budapesti út 9, 6728 Szeged, Hungary; Department of Genetics, ELTE Eötvös Loránd 
University, Pázmány Péter stny. 1/C, 1117 Budapest, Hungary.
(5)National Center for Public Health and Pharmacy, Albert Flórián út 2-6, 1097 
Budapest, Hungary.
(6)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Szeged, Szent-Györgyi 
Albert Medical School, Dom tér 10, 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(7)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; Department of Genetics, ELTE Eötvös Loránd University, 
Pázmány Péter stny. 1/C, 1117 Budapest, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Metabolic Systems 
Biology Group, Temesvári Krt. 62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(8)Institute of Biophysics, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; Theoretical Medicine Doctoral School, University of 
Szeged, Dugonics tér 13, 6720 Szeged, Hungary.
(9)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, University 
of Pécs, Szigeti út 12, 7624 Pécs, Hungary.
(10)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Metabolic Systems Biology Group, Temesvári 
Krt. 62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary.
(11)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; Faculty of Medicine, Department of Metabolism, 
Digestion and Reproduction, Imperial College London, 10th Floor Commonwealth 
Building Hammersmith Campus, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK.
(12)South-Pest Central Hospital National Institute of Hematology and Infectious 
Diseases, Nagyvárad tér 1, 1097 Budapest, Hungary; Doctoral School of 
Interdisciplinary Medical Sciences, University of Szeged, Dugonics tér 13, 6720 
Szeged, Hungary.
(13)George Emil Palade University of Medicine, Pharmacy, Science and Technology 
of Targu Mures, Str. Gheorghe Marinescu 38, 540142 Targu Mures, Romania; County 
Emergency Clinical Hospital of Targu Mures, Str. Dr. Gh. Marinescu 50, 540136 
Targu Mures, Romania.
(14)Microbiology Department, Multidisciplinary Research Center on Antimicrobial 
Resistance, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Str. Eftimie 
Murgu 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania; Microbiology Laboratory, "Pius Branzeu" 
Emergency Clinical County Hospital, Str. Liviu Rebreanu 156, 300723 Timisoara, 
Romania.
(15)Microbiology Department, Multidisciplinary Research Center on Antimicrobial 
Resistance, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Str. Eftimie 
Murgu 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania; Microbiology Laboratory, "Pius Branzeu" 
Emergency Clinical County Hospital, Str. Liviu Rebreanu 156, 300723 Timisoara, 
Romania; Doctoral School, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Str. Eftimie Murgu 2, 300041 Timisoara, Romania.
(16)Department of Microbiology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy "Iuliu 
Hatieganu" Cluj-Napoca, Str. Victor Babes 8, 400347 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(17)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Belgrade, Dr Subotica 8, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia.
(18)Academy of Applied Studies Belgrade, College of Health Sciences, Bulevar 
Zorana Djindjica 152a, Belgrade, Serbia.
(19)Emergency County Hospital Miercurea-Ciuc, Str. Doctor Dénes László 2, 530173 
Miercurea Ciuc, Romania.
(20)County Hospital Odorheiu-Secuiesc, Str. Bethlen Gábor nr. 72, 535600 
Odorheiu-Secuiesc, Romania.
(21)County Emergency Hospital Satu Mare, Str. Ravensburg 1-3, 440192 Satu Mare, 
Romania.
(22)Bacau County Emergency Hospital, Str. Haret Spiru 2-4, 600114 Bacau, 
Romania.
(23)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Semmelweis University, Üllői út 78/b, 1083 
Budapest, Hungary.
(24)Microbial Resistance and Drug Discovery, VIB-VUB Center for Structural 
Biology, VIB, Flanders Institute for Biotechnology, Pleinlaan 2, Building E-3, 
1050 Brussels, Belgium; Structural Biology Brussels, Vrije Universiteit Brussel 
(VUB), Pleinlaan 2, Elsene, 1050 Brussels, Belgium.
(25)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Metabolic Systems Biology Group, Temesvári 
Krt. 62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; National Laboratory for Health Security, HUN-REN 
Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary. Electronic 
address: papp.balazs@brc.hu.
(26)Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Biochemistry, National 
Laboratory of Biotechnology, HUN-REN Biological Research Centre, Temesvári Krt. 
62, 6726 Szeged, Hungary; HCEMM-BRC Translational Microbiology Research Group, 
Budapesti út 9, 6728 Szeged, Hungary. Electronic address: kintses.balint@brc.hu.

Phage therapy is gaining increasing interest in the fight against critically 
antibiotic-resistant nosocomial pathogens. However, the narrow host range of 
bacteriophages hampers the development of broadly effective phage therapeutics 
and demands precision approaches. Here, we combine large-scale phylogeographic 
analysis with high-throughput phage typing to guide the development of precision 
phage cocktails targeting carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter baumannii, a 
top-priority pathogen. Our analysis reveals that a few strain types dominate 
infections in each world region, with their geographical distribution remaining 
stable within 6 years. As we demonstrate in Eastern Europe, this spatiotemporal 
distribution enables preemptive preparation of region-specific phage collections 
that target most local infections. Finally, we showcase the efficacy of phage 
cocktails against prevalent strain types using in vitro and animal infection 
models. Ultimately, genomic surveillance identifies patients benefiting from the 
same phages across geographical scales, thus providing a scalable framework for 
precision phage therapy.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2024.09.009
PMID: 39332413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests M.K., T.S., H.H.M., 
O.M., G.A., B.E., B.P., and B.K. are inventors on a filed patent application of 
region-specific phage compositions (European Patent Office). B.K., T.S., M.K., 
B.E., and B.M.V. are employees of BRC-Bio Ltd. Hungary.

1. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2024 Oct 23;90(10):e0071524. doi:
10.1128/aem.00715-24.  Epub 2024 Sep 27.

Taxonomic variation, plastic degradation, and antibiotic resistance traits of 
plastisphere communities in the maturation pond of a wastewater treatment plant.

Maday SDM(1), Kingsbury JM(2), Weaver L(2), Pantos O(2), Wallbank JA(1), Doake 
F(2), Masterton H(2), Hopkins M(3), Dunlop R(3), Gaw S(3), Theobald B(4), Risani 
R(4), Abbel R(4), Smith D(4), Handley KM(1), Lear G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(2)Institute of Environmental Science and Research, Christchurch, New Zealand.
(3)School of Physical and Chemical Sciences, University of Canterbury, 
Christchurch, New Zealand.
(4)Scion, Rotorua, New Zealand.

Wastewater treatment facilities can filter out some plastics before they reach 
the open environment, yet microplastics often persist throughout these systems. 
As they age, microplastics in wastewater may both leach and sorb pollutants and 
fragment to provide an increased surface area for bacterial attachment and 
conjugation, possibly impacting antimicrobial resistance (AMR) traits. Despite 
this, little is known about the effects of persistent plastic pollution on 
microbial functioning. To address this knowledge gap, we deployed five different 
artificially weathered plastic types and a glass control into the final 
maturation pond of a municipal wastewater treatment plant in 
Ōtautahi-Christchurch, Aotearoa/New Zealand. We sampled the plastic-associated 
biofilms (plastisphere) at 2, 6, 26, and 52 weeks, along with the ambient pond 
water, at three different depths (20, 40, and 60 cm from the pond water 
surface). We investigated the changes in plastisphere microbial diversity and 
functional potential through metagenomic sequencing. Bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA 
genes composition did not vary among plastic types and glass controls (P = 
0.997) but varied among sampling times [permutational multivariate analysis of 
variance (PERMANOVA), P = 0.001] and depths (PERMANOVA, P = 0.011). Overall, 
there was no polymer-substrate specificity evident in the total composition of 
genes (PERMANOVA, P = 0.67), but sampling time (PERMANOVA, P = 0.002) and depth 
were significant factors (PERMANOVA, P = 0.001). The plastisphere housed diverse 
AMR gene families, potentially influenced by biofilm-meditated conjugation. The 
plastisphere also harbored an increased abundance of genes associated with the 
biodegradation of nylon, or nylon-associated substances, including nylon 
oligomer-degrading enzymes and hydrolases.IMPORTANCEPlastic pollution is 
pervasive and ubiquitous. Occurrences of plastics causing entanglement or 
ingestion, the leaching of toxic additives and persistent organic pollutants 
from environmental plastics, and their consequences for marine macrofauna are 
widely reported. However, little is known about the effects of persistent 
plastic pollution on microbial functioning. Shotgun metagenomics sequencing 
provides us with the necessary tools to examine broad-scale community 
functioning to further investigate how plastics influence microbial communities. 
This study provides insight into the functional consequence of continued 
exposure to waste plastic by comparing the prokaryotic functional potential of 
biofilms on five types of plastic [linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE), 
nylon-6, polyethylene terephthalate, polylactic acid, and oxygen-degradable 
LLDPE], glass, and ambient pond water over 12 months and at different depths 
(20, 40, and 60 cm) within a tertiary maturation pond of a municipal wastewater 
treatment plant.

DOI: 10.1128/aem.00715-24
PMCID: PMC11497791
PMID: 39329490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

1. Nat Commun. 2024 Sep 26;15(1):8263. doi: 10.1038/s41467-024-52669-9.

Exploring microbial diversity and biosynthetic potential in zoo and wildlife 
animal microbiomes.

Schmartz GP(#)(1), Rehner J(#)(2), Schuff MJ(2), Molano LG(1), Becker SL(2), 
Krawczyk M(3), Tagirdzhanov A(1)(4), Gurevich A(4)(5), Francke R(6), Müller 
R(4), Keller V(#)(1), Keller A(#)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Chair for Clinical Bioinformatics, Saarland University, 66123, Saarbrücken, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, 66421 Saarland University, 
Homburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Medicine II, 66421 Saarland University, Homburg, Germany.
(4)Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland, Helmholtz Center 
for Infection Research, 66123, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(5)Department of Computer Science, Saarland University, 66123, Saarbrücken, 
Germany.
(6)Zoo Saarbücken, 66121, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(7)Chair for Clinical Bioinformatics, Saarland University, 66123, Saarbrücken, 
Germany. andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.
(8)Helmholtz Institute for Pharmaceutical Research Saarland, Helmholtz Center 
for Infection Research, 66123, Saarbrücken, Germany. 
andreas.keller@ccb.uni-saarland.de.
(#)Contributed equally

Understanding human, animal, and environmental microbiota is essential for 
advancing global health and combating antimicrobial resistance (AMR). We 
investigate the oral and gut microbiota of 48 animal species in captivity, 
comparing them to those of wildlife animals. Specifically, we characterize the 
microbiota composition, metabolic pathways, AMR genes, and biosynthetic gene 
clusters (BGCs) encoding the production of specialized metabolites. Our results 
reveal a high diversity of microbiota, with 585 novel species-level genome bins 
(SGBs) and 484 complete BGCs identified. Functional gene analysis of microbiomes 
shows diet-dependent variations. Furthermore, by comparing our findings to 
wildlife-derived microbiomes, we observe the impact of captivity on the animal 
microbiome, including examples of converging microbiome compositions. 
Importantly, our study identifies AMR genes against commonly used veterinary 
antibiotics, as well as resistance to vancomycin, a critical antibiotic in human 
medicine. These findings underscore the importance of the 'One Health' approach 
and the potential for zoonotic transmission of pathogenic bacteria and AMR. 
Overall, our study contributes to a better understanding of the complexity of 
the animal microbiome and highlights its BGC diversity relevant to the discovery 
of novel antimicrobial compounds.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-024-52669-9
PMCID: PMC11427580
PMID: 39327429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: G.P.S., R.M., and A.K. are co-founders of MooH 
GmbH, a company developing metagenomic-based oral health tests. The remaining 
authors declare no competing interests.

1. J Ethnopharmacol. 2025 Jan 30;337(Pt 2):118853. doi:
10.1016/j.jep.2024.118853.  Epub 2024 Sep 24.

Antibacterial and therapeutic potential of historic deposits of silesian healing 
clay - terra sigillataSilesiaca.

Spielvogel I(1), Gębarowska E(2), Badora K(3), Waroszewski J(4), Budek K(5), 
Proćków J(6), Gałka B(7), Gębarowski T(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Institute of Physiotherapy, Opole University of 
Technology, Prószkowska 76, 45-758 Opole, Poland. Electronic address: 
i.spielvogel@po.edu.pl.
(2)Division of Biogeochemistry and Environmental Microbiology, Department of 
Plant Protection, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, 
Grunwaldzka 53, 50-357 Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: 
elzbieta.gebarowska@upwr.edu.pl.
(3)Institute of Environmental Engineering and Biotechnology, Opole University, 
Kominka 4a, 45-052 Opole, Poland. Electronic address: kbadora@uni.opole.pl.
(4)Institute of Soil Science, Plant Nutrition and Environmental Protection, 
Faculty of Life Sciences and Technology, Wrocław University of Environmental and 
Life Sciences, ul. Grunwaldzka 53, 50-357 Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: 
jaroslaw.waroszewski@upwr.edu.pl.
(5)Division of Biogeochemistry and Environmental Microbiology, Department of 
Plant Protection, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, 
Grunwaldzka 53, 50-357 Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: 
karolina.budek@upwr.edu.pl.
(6)Department of Plant Biology, Institute of Environmental Biology, Wrocław 
University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Kożuchowska 5b, 51-631 Wrocław, 
Poland. Electronic address: jaroslaw.prockow@upwr.edu.pl.
(7)Institute of Soil Science, Plant Nutrition and Environmental Protection, 
Faculty of Life Sciences and Technology, Wrocław University of Environmental and 
Life Sciences, ul. Grunwaldzka 53, 50-357 Wrocław, Poland. Electronic address: 
bernard.galka@upwr.edu.pl.
(8)Department of Biostructure and Animal Physiology, Wrocław University of 
Environmental and Life Sciences, Kożuchowska 1/3, 51-631 Wrocław, Poland. 
Electronic address: tomasz.gebarowski@upwr.edu.pl.

ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The increasing evolution of pathogen resistance 
is a global problem that requires novel solutions. Recently, an increased 
interest in ethnomedicinal sources can be observed in the derivation of new 
medicines. The return to traditional medicinal formulations handed down for 
generations is being followed, but it is necessary to revise them again, taking 
into account the generally accepted research protocol.
AIM OF THE STUDY: We aimed to evaluate the antimicrobial potential of historical 
deposits of Silesian healing clay (SHC), used in ethnomedicine against 
Gram-positive bacteria and to assess their biological activity using a primary 
dermal fibroblast line (NHDF) and a model monocyte line (THP1).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Information on medicinal clay deposits that occur in 
Silesia and are traditionally used in ethnomedicine or ancient medicine and 
known as terra sigillata Silesiaca or SHC, was selected on available source 
materials and old prints and maps from the archives of the Polish Geological 
Institute (Wrocław, Poland). Subsequently, their places of occurrence were 
identified and traced in the field by taking three deposits from the Silesia 
territory: Upper Silesia (D1), Opole Silesia (D2), and Lower Silesian (D3) 
Voivodeships for analysis. Their basic parameters and antimicrobial efficacy 
against pathogenic bacteria, Gram-positive streptococci and staphylococci, 
including methicillin-resistant strains, were examined. The study evaluated the 
effects of clays on growth and vitality using a primary dermal fibroblast line 
(NHDF) and a monocytic line (THP1). Studies were performed on a cell culture 
model to determine the effects on tissue regeneration (fibroblasts) and 
anti-inflammatory effects (monocytes). The study attempted to identify the 
mechanism of antimicrobial action, especially the textural characteristics and 
geochemical composition, as well as the environmental reaction (pH).
RESULTS: SHCs were classified into the following textural classes: clay loam 
(D1), clay (D2), and sand (D3). The tested deposits have antimicrobial 
properties that reduce the bacterial population (104 CFU) compared to the 
control (108 CFU). The antimicrobial effect depends on the type of clay and the 
species or strain of bacteria used. In-house studies clearly showed that 
Staphylococcus aureus Pcm 2054 and Staphylococcus epidermidis MRSE ATCC 
2538 cells were completely adsorbed by clay minerals from clay D3.13. 
Furthermore, 10% leachates also showed an antimicrobial effect, as a reduction 
in bacterial populations was observed ranging from 91 to 100%. The results 
showed stimulation of fibroblast culture proliferation and inhibition of the 
growth of inflammatory cells (monocytes).
CONCLUSION: SHCs tested have antimicrobial potential, in particular D2.7, D2.11, 
and D3.13. The D3.13 deposit had a bactericidal effect against the staphylococci 
tested. Aqueous solutions of clays also showed bacteriostatic effect. The 
results obtained in cell culture model tests indicate properties that modulate 
the healing process - stimulation of fibroblast growth (NHDF line) and 
inhibition of monocyte growth (THP1 line).

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2024.118853
PMID: 39326814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:135942. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135942.
Epub  2024 Sep 24.

Response of sedimentary microbial community and antibiotic resistance genes to 
aged Micro(Nano)plastics exposure under high hydrostatic pressure.

Chen C(1), Lai H(2), Deng Y(3), Cao J(2), Chen J(4), Jin S(1), Wu W(5), Sun 
D(1), Zhang C(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Marine Biology and pharmacology, Ocean College, Zhejiang 
University, Zhoushan 316021, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Guangzhou), 
Guangzhou 511458, Guangdong, China; Guangzhou Marine Geological Survey, 
Guangzhou 510075, Guangdong, China.
(3)Southern Marine Science and Engineering Guangdong Laboratory (Guangzhou), 
Guangzhou 511458, Guangdong, China; Guangzhou Marine Geological Survey, 
Guangzhou 510075, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: dengyinan@126.com.
(4)Donghai laboratory, Zhoushan 316021, Zhejiang, China.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, William & Cloy Codiga 
Resource Recovery Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-4020.
(6)Institute of Marine Biology and pharmacology, Ocean College, Zhejiang 
University, Zhoushan 316021, Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
Zhangcf@zju.edu.cn.

Several studies reported that the presence of microplastics (MPs)/nanoplastics 
(NPs) in marine environments can alter microbial community and function. Yet, 
the impact of aged MPs/NPs on deep sea sedimentary ecosystems under high 
hydrostatic pressure remains insufficiently explored. Herein, the sedimentary 
microbial community composition, co-occurrence network, assembly, and transfer 
of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in response to aged MPs/NPs were 
investigated. Compared with the control, NPs addition significantly reduced 
bacterial alpha diversity (p < 0.05), whereas MPs showed no significant impact 
(p > 0.05). Moreover, networks under NPs exhibited decreased complexity than 
that under MPs and the control, including edges, average degree, and the number 
of keystone. The assembly of the microbial community was primarily governed by 
stochastic processes, and aged MPs/NPs increased the importance of stochastic 
processes. Moreover, exposure to MPs/NPs for one month decreased the abundance 
of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) (from 94.8 to 36.2 TPM), while exposure 
for four months increased the abundance (from 40.6 to 88.1 TPM), and the shift 
of ARGs in sediment was driven by both functional modules and microbial 
community. This study is crucial for understanding the stress imposed by aged 
MPs/NPs on sedimentary ecosystems under high hydrostatic pressure.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.135942
PMID: 39326153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.