1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Oct 29:2024.10.10.617697. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.10.617697.

MicrobiomeKG: Bridging Microbiome Research and Host Health Through Knowledge 
Graphs.

Goetz SL(1), Glen AK(2), Glusman G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Systems Biology, 401 Terry Ave N, Seattle, WA 98109, USA.
(2)Oregon State University, 1500 SW Jefferson Way, Corvallis, OR 97331.

The microbiome represents a complex community of trillions of microorganisms 
residing in various body parts, and plays critical roles in maintaining host 
health and well-being. Understanding the interactions between microbiota and 
host offers valuable insights into potential strategies to promote health, 
including microbiome-targeted interventions. We have created MicrobiomeKG, a 
Knowledge Graph for microbiome research, bridging various taxa and microbial 
pathways with host health. This novel knowledge graph derives 
algorithmically-generated knowledge assertions from the supplemental tables 
supporting published microbiome papers, and is deployed for integrative analysis 
and hypothesis generation via the Biomedical Data Translator ecosystem.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.10.617697
PMCID: PMC11507793
PMID: 39464038

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement The authors 
declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Microorganisms. 2024 Jun 24;12(7):1282. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms12071282.

Spatiotemporal Variations in Co-Occurrence Patterns of Planktonic Prokaryotic 
Microorganisms along the Yangtze River.

Du W(1)(2), Li J(2), Zhang G(2), Yu K(1), Liu S(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Environment and Energy, Peking University Shenzhen Graduate School, 
Shenzhen 518055, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Water and Sediment Sciences, Ministry of Education, 
Department of Environmental Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 100871, 
China.
(3)College of Resources and Environmental Sciences, China Agricultural 
University, Beijing 100193, China.

Bacteria and archaea are foundational life forms on Earth and play crucial roles 
in the development of our planet's biological hierarchy. Their interactions 
influence various aspects of life, including eukaryotic cell biology, molecular 
biology, and ecological dynamics. However, the coexistence network patterns of 
these microorganisms within natural river ecosystems, vital for nutrient cycling 
and environmental health, are not well understood. To address this knowledge 
gap, we systematically explored the non-random coexistence patterns of 
planktonic bacteria and archaea in the 6000-km stretch of the Yangtze River by 
using high-throughput sequencing technology. By analyzing the O/R ratio, 
representing the divergence between observed (O%) and random (R%) co-existence 
incidences, and the module composition, we found a preference of both bacteria 
and archaea for intradomain associations over interdomain associations. Seasons 
notably influenced the co-existence of bacteria and archaea, and archaea played 
a more crucial role in spring as evidenced by their predominant presence of 
interphyla co-existence and more species as keystone ones. The autumn network 
was characterized by a higher node or edge number, greater graph density, node 
degree, degree centralization, and nearest neighbor degree, indicating a more 
complex and interconnected structure. Landforms markedly affected microbial 
associations, with more complex networks and more core species found in plain 
and non-source areas. Distance-decay analysis suggested the importance of 
geographical distance in shaping bacteria and archaea co-existence patterns 
(more pronounced in spring). Natural, nutrient, and metal factors, including 
water temperature, NH4+-N, Fe, Al, and Ni were identified as crucial 
determinants shaping the co-occurrence patterns. Overall, these findings 
revealed the dynamics of prokaryotic taxa coexistence patterns in response to 
varying environmental conditions and further contributed to a broader 
understanding of microbial ecology in freshwater biogeochemical cycling.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms12071282
PMCID: PMC11278652
PMID: 39065051

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

1. medRxiv [Preprint]. 2023 Nov 13:2023.11.13.23298467. doi: 
10.1101/2023.11.13.23298467.

Genotype-microbiome-metabolome associations in early childhood, and their link 
to BMI and childhood obesity.

Aparicio A, Sun Z, Gold DR, Litonjua AA, Weiss ST, Lee-Sarwar K, Liu YY.

The influence of genotype on defining the human gut microbiome has been 
extensively studied, but definite conclusions have not yet been found. To fill 
this knowledge gap, we leverage data from children enrolled in the Vitamin D 
Antenatal Asthma Reduction Trial (VDAART) from 6 months to 8 years old. We focus 
on a pool of 12 genes previously found to be associated with the gut microbiome 
in independent studies, establishing a Bonferroni corrected significance level 
of p-value < 2.29 Ã— 10 -6 . We identified significant associations between SNPs 
in the FHIT gene (known to be associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes) and 
obesity-related microbiome features, and the children's BMI through their 
childhood. Based on these associations, we defined a set of SNPs of interest and 
a set of taxa of interest. Taking a multi-omics approach, we integrated plasma 
metabolome data into our analysis and found simultaneous associations among 
children's BMI, the SNPs of interest, and the taxa of interest, involving amino 
acids, lipids, nucleotides, and xenobiotics. Using our association results, we 
constructed a quadripartite graph where each disjoint node set represents SNPs 
in the FHIT gene, microbial taxa, plasma metabolites, or BMI measurements. 
Network analysis led to the discovery of patterns that identify several genetic 
variants, microbial taxa and metabolites as new potential markers for obesity, 
type 2 diabetes, or insulin resistance risk.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.11.13.23298467
PMCID: PMC10680902
PMID: 38014043