1. Environ Health Insights. 2024 Nov 30;18:11786302241304539. doi: 
10.1177/11786302241304539. eCollection 2024.

Exposure to Environmental Pollutants and Risk of Diarrhea: A Systematic Review.

Nwanaforo E(1), Obasi CN(2), Frazzoli C(3), Bede-Ojimadu O(4), Orisakwe 
OE(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Science, School of Health Technology, 
Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo State, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Experimental Pharmacology & Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Port-Harcourt, Port-Harcourt, Rivers State, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular and Endocrine-Metabolic Diseases, and Ageing, 
Istituto Superiore di Sanità (Italian National Institute of Health), Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Laboratory Science, School of Allied Health Sciences, 
Kampala International University, Kampala, Uganda.
(5)African Centre of Excellence for Public Health and Toxicological Research 
(ACE-PUTOR), University of Port Harcourt, PMB, Choba, Nigeria.
(6)Advanced Research Centre, European University of Lefke, Lefke, Turkey.

This systematic review investigates the association between environmental 
pollutants and the risk of diarrhea, a critical public health issue, 
particularly in low- and middle-income countries. The review synthesizes 
findings from various studies that highlight the impact of contaminants such as 
pesticides, heavy metals, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), 
microplastics, and parabens on gastrointestinal health. Following PRISMA 
guidelines, a comprehensive literature search across databases including PubMed, 
Scopus, and Google Scholar yielded 496 articles, of which 11 met the inclusion 
criteria for detailed analysis. The results indicate a significant correlation 
between exposure to specific pollutants-particularly pesticides like 
dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), PAHs, arsenic, cadmium, and 
microplastics-and increased incidences of diarrhea. Notably, studies revealed 
that prenatal exposure to DDT is linked to higher diarrhea rates among boys in 
urban settings, while pesticide exposure in childhood correlates with 
inflammatory bowel disease in adulthood. Mechanistically, these pollutants may 
disrupt gastrointestinal function through cholinergic effects and endocrine 
disruption, leading to altered gut motility and microbiome imbalances. Moreover, 
the review emphasizes the immunosuppressive effects of heavy metals such as 
mercury and cadmium, which compromise the immune response and increase 
susceptibility to gastrointestinal infections. Despite the identified 
associations, there is a notable gap in research regarding geographic 
distribution and pollutant impacts on health outcomes. The review underscores 
the necessity for public health interventions aimed at reducing exposure to 
these environmental pollutants to mitigate their adverse health effects. In 
conclusion, this systematic review highlights the urgent need for further 
epidemiological studies in underrepresented areas to enhance our understanding 
of how environmental pollutants influence public health globally. 
Recommendations include rigorous monitoring of pollutant levels, public health 
initiatives to reduce exposure, and policies that restrict emissions of harmful 
substances. Addressing environmental pollution is crucial for mitigating 
diarrheal diseases and protecting vulnerable populations from its detrimental 
effects.

Plain Language Summary: Environmental polluatants (metals and non metals) are 
involved in diarrhea.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1177/11786302241304539
PMCID: PMC11608449
PMID: 39619770

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.

1. Comp Biochem Physiol C Toxicol Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 29:110092. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpc.2024.110092. Online ahead of print.

Synergistic toxicity of cadmium and triadimefon on the microbiota and health of 
Rana dybowskii tadpoles.

Han XY(1), Guo P(1), Fan QR(1), Zhou QB(1), Xu MD(1), Long XZ(1), Cui LY(2), 
Tong Q(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology and Agriculture, Jiamusi University, Jiamusi 154007, China.
(2)Jiamusi Branch of Heilongjiang Academy of Forestry Sciences, Jiamusi 154002, 
China.
(3)School of Biology and Agriculture, Jiamusi University, Jiamusi 154007, China; 
Jiamusi Branch of Heilongjiang Academy of Forestry Sciences, Jiamusi 154002, 
China. Electronic address: lxixl@126.com.

The skin and gut microbiota are crucial to amphibians. Triadimefon (TF), a 
widely used triazole fungicide, controls crop diseases and regulates growth, 
with uncertain effects on amphibian microbiota. Contamination, typically 
involving mixed chemicals at low concentrations, including cadmium (Cd) and TF, 
may detrimentally affect amphibian growth, survival, and microbiota health in 
both the skin and gut, but few research has examined these consequences. This 
research examines the impact of Cd and TF on Rana dybowskii tadpoles, focusing 
on survival, body mass, and microbiome changes over 28 days across four groups: 
control, Cd, TF, and Cd + TF groups. Results showed significant reductions in 
survival and body mass in Cd and TF-treated groups, with the combination group 
being the most affected. Microbiota analysis revealed significant dysbiosis in 
both gut and skin microbiomes under pollutant stress, with a marked microbiota 
and a shift in dominant microbial communities. Function prediction analysis 
based on the microbiome composition highlighted significant differences across 
various biological pathways, including metabolism, immune system, environmental 
adaptation, and disease resistance. These alterations suggest that pollutant 
exposure compromises the tadpoles' ability to maintain homeostasis and resist 
pathogens. In conclusion, this study reveals the detrimental effects of Cd and 
TF on the survival, growth, and microbiomes of R. dybowskii tadpoles, indicating 
significant environmental and health risks.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpc.2024.110092
PMID: 39617313

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 30;289:117447. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117447. Online ahead of print.

A multi-levels analysis to evaluate the toxicity of microplastics on aquatic 
insects: A case study with damselfly larvae (Ischnura elegans).

Sun L(1), Cheng Z(1), Wang M(2), Wei C(2), Liu H(3), Yang Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and Application, School of Life 
Science, Institute of Life Science and Green Development, Hebei 
University, Baoding 071002, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Materials Science, Hebei University, Baoding 
071002, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and Application, School of Life 
Science, Institute of Life Science and Green Development, Hebei 
University, Baoding 071002, China. Electronic address: liuhy@hbu.edu.cn.
(4)Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and Application, School of Life 
Science, Institute of Life Science and Green Development, Hebei 
University, Baoding 071002, China; Hebei Basic Science Center for Biotic 
Interaction, Hebei University, Baoding 071002, China. Electronic address: 
yxyang@hbu.edu.cn.

Microplastic (MP) pollution prevalent in freshwater environments and jeopardizes 
the organisms living there. Dozens of studies have been conducted to investigate 
the harmful effects of microplastics on organisms. However, the most diverse and 
sensitive aquatic insects are often overlooked, also there is a lack of a 
comprehensive research exploring the toxicity of microplastics. Here, taking the 
damselfly larvae (Ischnura elegans) as the subject, we investigated the effects 
of different concentration levels of polystyrene microplastics (PS MPs) on their 
physiological characters, behavioristics, metabolomics and transcriptomics, as 
well as gut microbiome. The results showed that the PS MPs had no significant 
effects on the body weight and survival rate, but led to behavioral inhibition. 
Furthermore, expression levels of some metabolites altered, such as nicotinic 
acid, fumaric acid, and stearic acid. Meanwhile, the pathways related to 
oxidative phosphorylation and carbon metabolism were upregulated at the 
transcriptomic level. Moreover, there was a modification of the gut microbial 
community, with an increase in species richness but a shift towards potentially 
harmful bacteria. Our findings suggested that exposure to PS MPs affected the 
overall health of damselfly larvae. Therefore, effective management of MPs to 
minimize their environmental input is crucial in reducing health risks to 
aquatic organisms.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117447
PMID: 39616662

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 30;14(1):29789. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-78288-4.

Exposure to Pseudomonas spp. increases Anopheles gambiae insecticide resistance 
in a host-dependent manner.

Silva LM(1)(2), Acerbi G(3)(4), Amann M(3), Koella JC(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, University of Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland. 
luis.silva@ubc.ca.
(2)Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. 
luis.silva@ubc.ca.
(3)Institute of Biology, University of Neuchâtel, Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Evolutionary and Integrative Ecology, Leibniz Institute of 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB), Berlin, Germany.

The microbiota of mosquitoes influences many aspects of their biology, including 
developmental processes, mating and sexual reproduction, immune functions, and 
refractoriness to pathogens. Here, we considered their role in resistance 
against insecticides. In particular, we assessed how larval infection of a 
permethrin-resistant and a sensitive colony of Anopheles gambiae by four strains 
belonging to three different Pseudomonas species affects several life history 
traits and the impact of the insecticide on adult mortality. Our data showed 
that all four Pseudomonas strains persisted in adults until death. The bacteria 
increased the likelihood that mosquitoes survived 24 h after exposure to 
permethrin by up to twofold. The impact of the bacteria depended on the 
bacterial strains and the mosquito colony: in the resistant colony, all bacteria 
increased survival by about twofold, while in the sensitive colony, only two of 
the four strains increased survival. The benefit concerning insecticide 
resistance came with little to no impact on the other traits (i.e., larval 
mortality, developmental time and adult longevity). Altogether, our results 
highlight the importance of considering environmental microbial exposure and 
mosquito microbial communities in epidemiological and vector-control studies, 
while also suggesting a possible role for Pseudomonas spp. as a symbiont in A. 
gambiae.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-78288-4
PMID: 39616220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing interests: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 28;957:177780. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177780.  Online ahead of print.

Lincomycin as a growth-promoting antibiotic induces metabolic and immune 
dysregulation in animals.

Ni H(1), Wu H(2), Wang J(3), Chan BK(3), Chen K(3), Chan EW(3), Li F(4), Chen 
S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, Jockey Club College of 
Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong; Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Science, The 
Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Public Health, Jockey Club College of 
Veterinary Medicine and Life Sciences, City University of Hong Kong, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Science, The Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
(4)Department of Animal Science and Technology, College of Animal Sciences, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(5)Department of Food Science and Nutrition, Faculty of Science, The Hong Kong 
Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong; Shenzhen Key Lab for Food Biological 
Safety Control, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University Shenzhen Research 
Institute, Shenzhen, 518057, China. Electronic address: sheng.chen@polyu.edu.hk.

Since animal growth promoters (AGPs) are used in large quantities and commonly 
released to the environment from animal farms, it is necessary to determine 
whether such agents should be regarded as an environmental toxin that poses a 
threat to the ecosystem and health risk to wildlife. In this study, a 
multi-omics approach was employed to explore the effects of a representative 
AGP, lincomycin, on key metabolic and physiological functions of animals, using 
a mouse model. The results indicated that exposure to lincomycin resulted in a 
significant increase in growth rate of mice (50.11 %) over an 8 weeks period, 
during which significant decrease (61.94 %) and increase (68.64 %) in the 
relative abundance of Firmicutes and Escherichia coli, respectively, was 
observed in the gut microbiota, indicating that the gut microbiota structure has 
been altered. Moreover, the mice exhibited altered lipid profiles and liver 
damage suggestive of early-stage non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). 
Disruptions in blood glucose and insulin levels associated with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM) were also observed. Furthermore, lincomycin was found to cause 
suppression in inflammatory responses, as evidenced by the downregulation of 
related genes and elevated inflammatory mediators, potentially resulting in 
increased susceptibility to microbial infection. Our findings underscore the 
detrimental effects of lincomycin on animal health and highlight the necessity 
for comprehensive toxicological assessments of lincomycin and other AGPs before 
their environmental release.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177780
PMID: 39612713

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 28;288:117376. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117376. Online ahead of print.

Residual levels of dietary deltamethrin interfere with growth and intestinal 
health in Litopenaeus vannamei.

Qu K(1), Shi M(1), Chen L(1), Liu Y(1), Yao X(1), Li X(1), Tan B(2), Xie S(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Aquatic Sciences, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, 
China.
(2)College of Aquatic Sciences, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, 
China; Guangdong Province Research Center for Accurate Nutrition and 
High-Efficiency Feeding of Aquatic Animals, Zhanjiang 524088, China; Key 
Laboratory of Aquatic Feed Science and Technology for Livestock and Poultry in 
Southern China, under the Ministry of Agriculture, Zhanjiang 524088, China.
(3)College of Aquatic Sciences, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, 
China; Guangdong Province Research Center for Accurate Nutrition and 
High-Efficiency Feeding of Aquatic Animals, Zhanjiang 524088, China; Key 
Laboratory of Aquatic Feed Science and Technology for Livestock and Poultry in 
Southern China, under the Ministry of Agriculture, Zhanjiang 524088, China. 
Electronic address: xiesw@gdou.edu.cn.

To date, few study explored the damage of chronic dietary exposure to the 
lipophilic pesticide deltamethrin (DM) in aquatic animals, and it remains 
unclear whether its toxicity and residue levels would be affected by dietary 
lipid levels. Therefore, the present study aimed to elucidate the interactions 
between dietary lipid levels and DM levels in the Pacific white shrimp, focusing 
on growth performance, antioxidant capacity, and intestinal microbiota. DM has 
excellent insecticidal activity and has been used worldwide. Previous research 
has shown that environmental DM poses toxicity risks to aquatic animals. Six 
different diets were formulated to feed shrimp for 6 weeks with two lipid levels 
(6.96 %, 10.88 %) and three DM levels (0.2 mg·kg-1, 1 mg·kg-1, 5 mg·kg-1), 
namely LF0.2, LF1, LF5, HF0.2, HF1, HF5, respectively. Each diet was assigned to 
three net cages with a total of 18 cages (40 shrimp per tank, average weight 
(0.382±0.001 g), of which 0.2 mg·kg-1, are grouped in environmental DM control 
groups. The growth of shrimp was reduced as the dietary DM levels increased. 
When shrimp were fed a diet containing a high dose of DM, a reduction in their 
antioxidant capacity was also observed. Enzyme activity and gene expression 
related to lipid metabolism in hepatopancreas and hemolymph indicated a 
significant interaction between dietary lipid levels and DM in the lipid 
metabolism of shrimp. The terms of detoxification-related genes (gst, sult, 
cyp1a1) were upregulated in shrimp fed the high-dose DM. Additionally, the 
presence of DM in the diet severely harmed the hepatopancreas and intestinal 
histological morphology. DM in the diet increased the susceptibility of shrimp 
to pathogens and induced intestine microbiota dysbiosis, disrupting the balance 
of inter-species interactions. DM was not detected in the muscle and 
hepatopancreas of the shrimp after six weeks of exposure. In conclusion, the 
presence of DM in feed reduced the growth performance and antioxidant capacity 
of shrimp, damaging intestinal health. DM was rapidly metabolized by shrimp.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117376
PMID: 39612679

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 27;957:177745. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177745.  Online ahead of print.

Toxic effects of chronic exposure to BPAF and perturbation of gut microbiota 
homeostasis in marine medaka (Oryzias melastigma).

Chen Z(1), Zhou T(2), Chen X(3), Huan Z(2), Huang J(2), Lu S(2), Zeng M(2), Guo 
Y(2), Wang Z(2), Dong Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Aquaculture in South China Sea for Aquatic Economic Animal 
of Guangdong Higher Education Institutes, College of Fishery, Guangdong Ocean 
University, Zhanjiang 524088, China; Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Pathogenic Biology and Epidemiology for Aquatic Economic Animals, College of 
Fishery, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Aquaculture in South China Sea for Aquatic Economic Animal 
of Guangdong Higher Education Institutes, College of Fishery, Guangdong Ocean 
University, Zhanjiang 524088, China.
(3)Center for Industrial Analysis and Testing, Guangdong Academy of Sciences, 
Guangzhou 510650, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Aquaculture in South China Sea for Aquatic Economic Animal 
of Guangdong Higher Education Institutes, College of Fishery, Guangdong Ocean 
University, Zhanjiang 524088, China; Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of 
Pathogenic Biology and Epidemiology for Aquatic Economic Animals, College of 
Fishery, Guangdong Ocean University, Zhanjiang 524088, China. Electronic 
address: zddong@gdou.edu.cn.

Bisphenol AF (BPAF), a substitute for bisphenol A (BPA), exhibits potent 
endocrine-disrupting properties that pose a serious health hazard to organisms. 
This study employed marine medaka as a model, subjecting them to different 
concentrations of BPAF (0.61, 6.65, and 91.88 μg/L) from the embryonic stage for 
a period of 160 days. Findings showed that 91.88 μg/L BPAF reduced survival 
rates and altered sex ratios. Furthermore, exposure to BPAF at all 
concentrations led to a significant increase in body length and weight. 
Behavioral analysis revealed that BPAF exposure impaired the swimming ability of 
the medaka. Histological changes included disrupted ovarian development, reduced 
sperm count, liver inflammation, and intestinal damage. Gene expression analysis 
revealed impacts on nervous system (e.g., gap43, itr, elavl3), HPG axis (e.g., 
gthα, erα, 3βhsd), and liver genes (e.g., chgl, vtg2). Additionally, BPAF 
altered the diversity and richness of gut microbes in marine medaka, leading to 
significant changes in specific bacterial species and intestinal functions. In 
conclusion, long-term BPAF exposure induced neurotoxicity, reproductive 
toxicity, and impaired digestive and immune systems in marine medaka, with 
sex-specific effects. These results provide further evidence of the potential 
hazards of BPAF as an environmental pollutant.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177745
PMID: 39608261

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.

1. Microb Ecol. 2024 Nov 28;87(1):149. doi: 10.1007/s00248-024-02468-y.

Bacterial Resilience and Community Shifts Under 11 Draining-Flooding Cycles in 
Rice Soils.

de Freitas AS(1), Carlos FS(2), Martins GL(1), Monteiro GGTN(1), Roesch LFW(3).

Author information:
(1)Cell and Molecular Biology Laboratory, Center for Nuclear Energy in 
Agriculture, University of São Paulo, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.
(2)Soil Department, "Eliseu Maciel" Agronomy Faculty, Federal University of 
Pelotas, Pelotas, RS, Brazil.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Cell Science, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA. roesch@ufl.edu.

Flooded rice cultivation, accounting for 75% of global rice production, 
significantly influences soil redox potential, element speciation, pH, and 
nutrient availability, presenting challenges such as extensive water usage and 
altered soil properties. This study investigates bacterial community dynamics in 
rice soils subjected to repeated draining and flooding in Rio Grande do Sul, 
Brazil. We demonstrate that bacterial communities exhibit remarkable resilience 
(the capacity to recover after being altered by a disturbance) but cannot remain 
stable after long-term exposure to environmental changes. The beta diversity 
analysis revealed four distinct community states after 11 draining/flooding 
cycles, indicating resilience over successive environment changes. However, the 
consistent environmental disturbance reduced microbial resilience, causing the 
bacterial community structure to shift over time. Those differences were driven 
by substitutions of taxa and functions and not by the loss of diversity. Notable 
shifts included a decline in Acidobacteria and an increase in Proteobacteria and 
Chloroflexi. Increased Verrucomicrobia abundance corresponded with lower pH 
levels. Functional predictions suggested dynamic metabolic responses, with 
increased nitrification during drained cycles and a surge in fermenters after 
the sixth cycle. Despite cyclic disturbances, bacterial communities exhibit 
resilience, contributing to stable ecosystem functioning in flooded rice soils. 
These findings enhance our understanding of microbial adaptation, providing 
insights into sustainable rice cultivation and soil management practices.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-024-02468-y
PMCID: PMC11602802
PMID: 39604741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Competing Interests: The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. Aquat Toxicol. 2024 Nov 19;278:107172. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2024.107172. 
Online ahead of print.

Integration of physiology, microbiota and metabolomics reveals toxic response of 
zebrafish gut to co-exposure to polystyrene nanoplastics and arsenic.

Li G(1), Lv M(2), Yu H(2), Zhang H(2), Zhang D(3), Li Q(2), Wang L(2), Wu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Water Resources Utilization and Protection of Xiamen, 
College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Xiamen University of 
Technology, Xiamen 361024, China. Electronic address: ligx@xmut.edu.cn.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Water Resources Utilization and Protection of Xiamen, 
College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Xiamen University of 
Technology, Xiamen 361024, China.
(3)Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, 
China.

Both nanoplastic (NP) particles and arsenic (As) are widespread in aquatic 
environments and pose a combined risk of exposure to aquatic organisms. How the 
gut of aquatic organisms responds to combined risk of exposure is still unclear. 
In this study, zebrafish (Danio rerio) were subjected to three distinct As 
stress environments: only As group (10 μg/L), and As combined with different 
concentrations of polystyrene (PS) NPs (1 mg/L and 10 mg/L) groups for 21 days 
via semi-static waterborne exposure. The physiological responses to combined 
stress, the diversity of gut microorganisms, and the metabolomic response of the 
gut were investigated. The findings indicated that PSNPs were prevalent in the 
intestines of zebrafish in the co-exposed group. Furthermore, the administration 
of 1 mg/L and 10 mg/L of PSNPs in the co-exposed group was observed to elevate 
As levels in the intestines by 24.88% and 76.95%, respectively, in comparison to 
As treatment alone. Simultaneous exposure of the gut to PSNPs and As resulted in 
increased contents/activities of MDA, SOD, CAT, and GST, and a decrease in 
contents/activities of GSH and GPx, when compared to As exposure alone. 
Additionally, the combined exposure led to an elevated expression of the 
Cu/Zn-sod, Mn-sod, gpx, and cat genes. The combined treatment with NPs and As 
resulted in an increase in the abundance of Proteobacteria and Fusobacteriota at 
the phylum level, as well as a significant increase in the abundance of 
Cetobacterium, Rhodococcus, and Bacteroides at the genus level. Non-targeted 
metabolomics analyses suggest that metabolic pathways affected by co-exposure 
include glycerophospholipid metabolism, glycerolipid metabolism, ABC 
transporters and autophagy. The findings of this study are of considerable 
significance for the evaluation of the toxicological impact of co-existing 
pollutants.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2024.107172
PMID: 39603049

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Monit Assess. 2024 Nov 27;196(12):1265. doi:
10.1007/s10661-024-13428-x.

Oil spill pollution and diversity analyses of resistant bacteria isolated from 
soil across the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal coastlines.

Rekadwad BN(1)(2), Shouche YS(3)(4), Jangid K(5).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Microbial Resource, BRIC-National Centre for Cell 
Science, SP Pune University Campus, Ganeshkhind, Pune, 411007, Maharashtra, 
India. rekadwad@gmail.com.
(2)MicrobeAI Lab, Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Yenepoya 
Research Centre, Yenepoya (Deemed to Be University), University Road, 
Deralakatte, Mangalore, 575018, Karnataka, India. rekadwad@gmail.com.
(3)National Centre for Microbial Resource, BRIC-National Centre for Cell 
Science, SP Pune University Campus, Ganeshkhind, Pune, 411007, Maharashtra, 
India.
(4)Gut Microbiology Research Division, SKAN Research Trust, Bangalore, 560034, 
Karnataka, India.
(5)Bioenergy Group, DST-Agharkar Research Institute, Gopal Ganesh Agarkar Road, 
Pune, 411004, Maharashtra, India.

Pelagic transport causes oil pollution via international tanker routes in the 
open ocean across southern Asia and the Indian Territory. Nutrient-rich runoff 
from residential, commercial, and industrial wastes, oil tanker mishaps, and 
sailing flags have all resulted in pollution. The natural flow of ocean water 
from east to west dragged pollutants into Indian Territory. We have investigated 
that the severe deposition of oil spills and biohazardous wastes is causing 
faunal mortality. Microbiome analyses helped us understand the sample's 
microbial load. 16S amplicon metagenome analysis, followed by enumeration and 
confirmation using molecular methods, indicates the presence of diverse 
microbial profiles. The presence of non-native hydrocarbon- and AMR-resistant 
bacterial taxa, such as Brevundimonas, Staphylococcus spp., Mycolicibacterium, 
Spingomonas spp., Bacillus spp., Chitinophaga spp., Priestia spp., Domibacillus 
spp., Rossellomorea spp., and Acinetobacter spp., confirms the impacts of oil 
and urban pollution. This indicates that the coastal soil of Goa and Andhra 
Pradesh has hydrocarbon- and antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which confirms that 
the present pollution status and that high-traffic recreational activities put 
biodiversity and humans at risk of getting illnesses linked to antibiotic 
resistance.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-024-13428-x
PMID: 39601988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. All authors have read, understood, 
and have complied as applicable with the statement on "Ethical responsibilities 
of Authors" as found in the Instructions for Authors. Financial interests: The 
authors declare they have no financial interests. Competing interests: The 
authors declare no competing interests.

1. Front Immunol. 2024 Nov 12;15:1407936. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1407936. 
eCollection 2024.

Oral exposure to high concentrations of polystyrene microplastics alters the 
intestinal environment and metabolic outcomes in mice.

Hasegawa Y(1), Okamura T(1), Ono Y(1), Ichikawa T(1), Saijo Y(1), Nakanishi 
N(1), Sasano R(2), Hamaguchi M(1), Takano H(3)(4), Fukui M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Graduate School of Medical 
Science, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)AiSTI Science Co., Ltd., Wakayama, Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Global Environmental Studies, Kyoto University, Kyoto, 
Japan.
(4)Institute for International Academic Research, Kyoto University of Advanced 
Science, Kyoto, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Oral exposure to microplastics (MPs) is a global health concern. 
In our previous study, MPs induced glucose intolerance and non-alcoholic fatty 
liver disease (NAFLD) under a high-fat diet-induced leaky gut syndrome (LGS). 
This study aims to evaluate the effects of high concentrations of MP on lipid 
metabolism under normal dietary conditions and to assess the changes in the 
intestinal tract resulting from MP exposure.
METHODS: C57BL6/J mice were fed a normal diet (ND) without polystyrene MPs 
(PS-MPs) or with PS-MPs (1000 µg/L or 5000 µg/L) for six weeks. Subsequently, 
intestinal permeability, gut microbiota, and metabolite levels in the serum, 
feces, and liver were determined.
RESULTS: Mice fed the ND showed no increase in intestinal permeability in either 
group. However, high MPs concentrations led to increased serum lipid levels and 
exacerbated fatty liver function. Oral exposure to MPs did not affect the number 
of innate lymphoid cells or short-chain fatty acids in the intestine. However, 
it increased the number of natural killer cells, altered the gut microbiota, 
induced inflammation, and modulated the expression of genes related to nutrient 
transport in the intestine. The severity of intestinal disturbance tended to 
worsen with dose.
DISCUSSION: Despite the absence of LGS, high concentrations of MPs induced 
dyslipidemia and NAFLD. Oral exposure to MPs triggered intestinal inflammation 
via natural killer cells, altered the gut microbiota, and modulated nutrient 
metabolism. Our study highlights the need for environmental measures to reduce 
oral MPs exposure in the future.

Copyright © 2024 Hasegawa, Okamura, Ono, Ichikawa, Saijo, Nakanishi, Sasano, 
Hamaguchi, Takano and Fukui.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1407936
PMCID: PMC11588728
PMID: 39600697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: NN received personal fees from Kowa 
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd., and Novo Nordisk Pharma Ltd., Nippon Boehringer 
Ingelheim Co. Ltd., TERUMO CORPORATION. RS is employed by AiSTI Science Co., 
Ltd. MH received grants from AstraZeneca K.K., Ono Pharma Co. Ltd., Kowa Pharma 
Co. Ltd., and personal fees from AstraZeneca K.K., Ono Pharma Co. Ltd., Eli 
Lilly, Japan, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., 
Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corp., Sanofi K.K., K.K., and Kowa Pharma Co. Ltd., 
outside the context of this study. MF received grants from Ono Pharma Co. Ltd., 
Oishi Kenko inc., Yamada Bee Farm, Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co. Ltd., Kissei 
Pharma Co. Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corp., Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd., Sanofi 
K.K., Takeda Pharma Co. Ltd., Astellas Pharma Inc., MSD K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., 
Ltd., Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co., Ltd., Kowa Pharma Co. Ltd., Novo Nordisk 
Pharma Ltd., Sanwa Kagagu Kenkyusho CO., Ltd., Eli Lilly, Japan, K.K., Taisho 
Pharma Co., Ltd., Terumo Corp., Tejin Pharma Ltd., Nippon Chemiphar Co., Ltd., 
Abbott Japan Co. Ltd., and Johnson & Johnson K.K. Medical Co., TERUMO 
CORPORATION, and received personal fees from Nippon Boehringer Ingelheim Co., 
Ltd., Kissei Pharma Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corp., Daiichi Sankyo 
Co. Ltd., Sanofi K.K., Takeda Pharma Co. Ltd., Astellas Pharma Inc., MSD K.K., 
Kyowa Kirin Co. Ltd., Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co. Ltd., Kowa Pharma Co. Ltd., 
Novo Nordisk Pharma Ltd., Ono Pharma Co. Ltd., Sanwa Kagaku Kenkyusho Co. Ltd., 
Eli Lilly Japan K.K., Taisho Pharma Co., Ltd., Bayer Yakuhin, Ltd., AstraZeneca 
K.K., Mochida Pharma Co. Ltd., Abbott Japan Co. Ltd., Teijin Pharma Ltd., Arkray 
Inc., Medtronic Japan Co. Ltd., and Nipro Corp., TERUMO CORPORATION, outside the 
context of this study. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Front Public Health. 2024 Nov 12;12:1470502. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1470502. 
eCollection 2024.

Intergenerational crosstalk of brain-gut axis in parental Nd(2)O(3) 
exposure-induced offspring neurotoxicity and cognitive dysfunction: a 
mechanistic study.

Jia Y(#)(1)(2), Cao J(#)(1), Guo Y(3), Wu L(1), Du X(1), Tang B(2), Xia B(4), 
Deng Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Baotou Medical College, Inner Mongolia University of Science and Technology, 
Baotou, China.
(2)Inner Mongolia Institute of Digestive Diseases, The Second Affiliated 
Hospital of Baotou Medical College, Inner Mongolia University of Science and 
Technology, Baotou, China.
(3)Baotou Customs District P.R.China, Baotou, China.
(4)The Third Hospital of Inner Mongolia Baogang Group, Baotou, China.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Rare earth elements (REEs) are widely used in plenty of fields. 
REEs have significant neurotoxicity and it may adversely affect the development 
of cognitive. For example, neodymium will causing neurological damage through 
penetrate the blood-brain barrier (BBB). However, whether it disrupts the 
balance of brain-gut axis (BGA) crosstalk and affects the intestinal 
microecology disorder of host is still unclear. This study investigated the 
neural damage on children caused by maternal exposure to Neodymium oxide (Nd2O3) 
during pregnancy, and its involved mechanism of BGA injury.
METHODS: We used rat model to investigated the mechanisms of the offspring's 
neural damage that Nd2O3 exposure in pregnancy. To verify the neural damage of 
offspring rats, we examed BBB-related factors, such like glutamate and ROS 
levels in brain tissue, behavioral tests, hippocampal and cortical damage, as 
well as changes in gut microbiota, intestinal mucosal barrier, and SCFAs in the 
intestine. Also, we observed some specific indicators of intestinal immune 
barrier function and gut nerve-related indicators.
RESULTS: Maternal Nd2O3 exposure reduced the content of offspring tight junction 
proteins, increased BBB permeability, leading to Nd accumulation and brain 
tissue inflammation, affecting offspring's neural development and weakening 
their spatial learning ability. Nd2O3 also disrupted BBB integrity by regulating 
SCFAs and BGA. Probiotic intervention in the offspring rats exposed to 2% Nd2O3 
showed significant recovery of inflammation in both brain and colon tissues, and 
reduced BBB permeability.
CONCLUSION: Maternal exposure to Nd2O3 affects the offspring's BGA, targeting 
brain and colon tissues, increasing BBB permeability, affecting neural 
development, causing damage to the intestinal mucosa, and impacting children's 
gut development. Probiotics can alleviate these effects. These findings provide 
valuable insights into understanding the neurodevelopmental and intestinal 
developmental toxicity of Nd2O3 and its prevention and treatment. It also calls 
for a comprehensive assessment of the health risks of susceptible populations to 
Nd2O3, such as pregnant women. It may providing theoretical basis for preventing 
and controlling neodymium-induced harm in children by examing the repair 
mechanism of the damage through probiotic intervention.

Copyright © 2024 Jia, Cao, Guo, Wu, Du, Tang, Xia and Deng.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1470502
PMCID: PMC11588634
PMID: 39600406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2024 Nov 11;13(11):1073. doi:
10.3390/antibiotics13111073.

Antibiotic Residues in Milk and Milk-Based Products Served in Kuwait Hospitals: 
Multi-Hazard Risk Assessment.

Alenezi MS(1), Tartor YH(2), El-Sherbini M(1), Pet E(3), Ahmadi M(4), 
Abdelkhalek A(5).

Author information:
(1)Food Safety, Hygiene and Technology Department, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Mansoura University, Mansoura 35516, Egypt.
(2)Microbiology Department, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Zagazig University, 
Zagazig 44511, Egypt.
(3)Management and Rural Development Department, Faculty of Management and Rural 
Tourism, University of Life Sciences "King Mihai I", 300645 Timisoara, Romania.
(4)Biotechnology Department, Faculty of Bioengineering of Animal Resources, 
University of Life Sciences "King Mihai I", 300645 Timisoara, Romania.
(5)Food Safety, Hygiene and Technology Department, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Badr University in Cairo (BUC), Badr City 11829, Egypt.

Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) poses a significant global health challenge 
affecting food safety and development. Residues of antibiotics in food from 
animal sources, particularly milk, contribute to the development and spread of 
AMR, alter intestinal microbiota, and potentially lead to allergies, serious 
health conditions, and environmental and technological problems within the dairy 
industry. Therefore, this study investigated the residue levels of veterinary 
drugs from β-lactam antibiotics and tetracyclines in milk and milk products and 
assessed human health risks. Two hundred milk and milk product samples 
(pasteurized milk, sterile milk, soft white cheese, and processed cheese, 50 
each) were collected from different hospitals in the State of Kuwait and 
screened for antibiotic residues using a microbial inhibition assay (Delvotest 
SP-NT) and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Delvotest SP-NT and 
HPLC analyses showed that 30, 28, 26, and 24% of the pasteurized milk, 
sterilized milk, white soft cheese, and processed cheese samples tested positive 
for antibiotic residues. Forty-eight milk and cheese samples were confirmed as 
positive by both methods, and six samples initially found to be negative by 
Delvotest SP-NT were confirmed as positive by HPLC. Multi-antibiotic residues 
were detected in five samples by using HPLC. The kappa coefficient (0.921; p < 
0.0001) revealed complete concordance between the HPLC and Delvotest SP-NT 
results. Ampicillin was the most abundant residue in the positive samples 
(31.48%), ranging from 2.44 to 3.89 μg/L, with an overall mean concentration of 
3.492 ± 0.094 μg/L, followed by tetracycline and oxytetracycline (27.78% each), 
ranging from 54.13 to 220.3 μg/L and from 41.55 to 160.7 μg/L, with mean 
concentrations of 129.477 ± 14.22 and 91.86 ± 9.92 μg/L, respectively. The 
amoxicillin levels in the samples (12/54; 22.22%) ranged from 3.11 to 5.5 μg/L, 
with an overall mean concentration of 3.685 ± 0.186 μg/L. The maximum 
concentrations of ampicillin, amoxicillin, and tetracycline were detected in 
processed cheese with mean concentrations of 3.89 ± 0.28 µg/L, 3.95 ± 0.15 µg/L, 
and 170.3 ± 0.27 µg/L, respectively. Pasteurized milk contained the maximum 
concentrations of oxytetracycline, with a mean concentration of 120.45 ± 0.25 
µg/L. The tetracycline residues exceeded the standard maximum residue limits 
(MRLs; 100 µg/L) in 6% of both pasteurized and sterilized milk samples, and in 
4% of processed cheese. Additionally, the oxytetracycline levels in pasteurized 
milk (6%) and amoxicillin levels in processed cheese (2%) were higher than the 
permitted MRLs (100 µg/L and 4 µg/L, respectively). Furthermore, the antibiotic 
residues detected in 12.5% (25/200) of the samples were close to standard 
permissible MRL limits for ampicillin (5%), amoxicillin and oxytetracycline (3% 
each), and tetracycline (1.5%). Hazard quotients, which compare the standard 
acceptable daily intake (ADI) to the estimated daily exposure (EDI), indicated 
that the overall risk associated with antibiotic residues in these dairy 
products is low. The EDI was lower than the ADI for the tested antibiotics, 
indicating an elevated safety margin. While the overall hazard quotients are 
low, the potential for the development of antibiotic resistance due to long-term 
exposure to low levels of antibiotics should be considered. Hence, strict 
regulations and enforcement are necessary to prevent excessive residue levels 
and to promote responsible antibiotic use in dairy production. Regular 
monitoring of antibiotic residues in dairy products is essential for ensuring 
consumer safety.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics13111073
PMCID: PMC11591502
PMID: 39596766

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Genes (Basel). 2024 Nov 9;15(11):1448. doi: 10.3390/genes15111448.

Exposure to High Concentrations of Tetrabromobisphenol A Slows the Process of 
Tissue Regeneration and Induces an Imbalance of Metabolic Homeostasis in the 
Regenerated Intestines of Apostichopus japonicus.

Wang Z(1), Song X(1), Yin W(1), Shi K(2), Lin Y(1), Liu J(1), Li X(1), Tan J(1), 
Rong J(1), Xu K(3), Wang G(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Marine Science and Engineering, Qingdao Agricultural University, 
Qingdao 266109, China.
(2)Weihai Huancui District Marine Development Research Center, Weihai 264200, 
China.
(3)Marine Science Research Institute of Shandong Province, National 
Oceanographic Center, Qingdao 266104, China.

BACKGROUND: Tissue regenerative capacity following evisceration, potentially 
influenced by environmental contaminants and intestinal microflora, is essential 
for the financial success of Apostichopus japonicus farming. However, the 
morphological structure, gut microbiome composition, and genes expression 
pattern of the regenerated gut after exposure to high levels of TBBPA remain 
poorly unclear.
METHODS: In this research, the effect of TBBPA exposure on tissue regeneration 
in A. japonicus was investigated through a comprehensive multi-omics approach.
RESULTS: Our results showed that the integrity, the intestinal wall thickness, 
and the villi length of the regenerated intestines in A. japonicus decreased 
after treatment with high levels of TBBPA. The findings from PCoA and NMDS 
analyses revealed that the microbial community composition was significantly 
altered following exposure to high concentrations of TBBPA in the regenerated 
intestines of A. japonicus. The KEGG pathway enrichment analysis indicated that 
the DEGs (differentially expressed genes) were predominantly enriched on 
metabolism and immunity-related signaling pathways after exposure to high levels 
of TBBPA. These included pathways involved in the PPAR signaling pathway, ECM 
receptor interaction, glycerolipid metabolism, and fatty acid degradation. 
Interestingly, the results have demonstrated that there are 77 transcript 
factors that were significantly different after exposure to TBBPA.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that high levels of exposure to TBBPA 
induces an imbalance of the metabolic homeostasis by regulating the expression 
levels of transcription factors in the regenerated intestines of A. japonicus.

DOI: 10.3390/genes15111448
PMCID: PMC11594171
PMID: 39596648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Food Res Int. 2024 Dec;197(Pt 1):115139. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2024.115139. 
Epub 2024 Sep 25.

Elucidating core microbiota in yellow wine (Huangjiu) through flavor-oriented 
synthesis and construction of microbial communities.

Peng Q(1), Zheng H(1), Zhou H(1), Chen J(1), Xu Y(2), Wang Z(2), Xie G(3).

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Research Center for Chinese CRW (Branch Center), School 
of Life and Environmental Sciences, Shaoxing University, 900 Chengnan Road, 
Shaoxing 312000, China.
(2)Zhejiang Guyuelongshan Shaoxing Wine Co., Ltd., Shaoxing 312000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Pollution Exposure and Health Intervention of Zhejiang 
Province, College of Biology and Environmental Engineering, Zhejiang Shuren 
University, Hangzhou 310015, China. Electronic address: 3582123211@qq.com.

Huangjiu, a traditional Chinese alcoholic beverage with a history spanning 
thousands of years, holds significant cultural and economic value in China. 
Despite its importance, the complexity of Huangjiu fermentation and the 
intricate interactions within its microbial community remain underexplored. This 
study addresses this gap by identifying the core volatile organic compounds 
(VOCs) and key microorganisms that define the flavor profile of Huangjiu. We 
employed HS-SPME-GC-MS along with aroma reconstitution and omission experiments 
to identify core VOCs, including Isobutanol, Isoamyl alcohol, β-Phenylethanol, 
and others. Metagenomic sequencing combined with QPCR was used to analyze 
microbial communities, revealing the temporal and spatial dynamics during 
fermentation. A synthetic microbial community model was constructed using the 
core microbes identified: Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Lactobacillus brevis, 
Saccharopolyspora rectivirgula, Bacillus subtilis, Leuconostoc citreum, 
Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus curvatus, Lactobacillus casei, and 
Aspergillus oryzae. This model successfully replicated Huangjiu's core VOCs and 
sensory characteristics, increased alcohol content, and reduced acidity. Our 
study contributes valuable insights into the microbial influences on Huangjiu 
quality, paving the way for its enhanced production and providing a foundation 
for future research in fermented beverages.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodres.2024.115139
PMID: 39593354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Microbiome. 2024 Nov 26;19(1):97. doi: 10.1186/s40793-024-00637-7.

Phage-induced disturbance of a marine sponge microbiome.

Steiner LX(1), Schmittmann L(2), Rahn T(3), Lachnit T(4), Jahn MT(5)(6), 
Hentschel U(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, RD3 Marine Ecology, RU 
Marine Symbioses, Kiel, Germany. lsteiner@geomar.de.
(2)GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, RD1 Ocean Circulation and 
Climate Dynamics, RU Ocean Dynamics, Kiel, Germany.
(3)GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, RD3 Marine Ecology, RU 
Marine Symbioses, Kiel, Germany.
(4)Zoological Institute, Christian-Albrechts Universität Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(5)Department of Biology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(7)GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, RD3 Marine Ecology, RU 
Marine Symbioses, Kiel, Germany. uhentschel@geomar.de.
(8)Christian-Albrechts-Universität Kiel, Kiel, Germany. uhentschel@geomar.de.

BACKGROUND: Bacteriophages are known modulators of community composition and 
activity in environmental and host-associated microbiomes. However, the impact 
single phages have on bacterial community dynamics under viral predation, the 
extent and duration of their effect, are not completely understood. In this 
study, we combine morphological and genomic characterization of a novel marine 
phage, isolated from the Baltic sponge Halichondria panicea, and report on first 
attempts of controlled phage-manipulation of natural sponge-associated 
microbiomes.
RESULTS: We used culture-based and culture-independent (16S rRNA gene amplicon 
sequencing) methods to investigate bacterial community composition and dynamics 
in sponge microbiomes with and without the addition of phages. Upon application 
of a novel Maribacter specialist phage Panino under controlled conditions, we 
were able to detect community-wide shifts in the microbiome composition and load 
after 72 h. While bacterial community composition became more dissimilar over 
time in the presence of phages, species evenness and richness were maintained. 
Upon phage exposure, we observed the loss of several low-abundance constituent 
taxa of the resident microbiota, while other originally underrepresented taxa 
increased. Virulent phages likely induce community-wide disturbances, evident in 
changes in the total sponge microbial profile by specific elimination of 
constituent taxa, which leads to an increase in bacterial abundance of 
opportunistic taxa, such as the genera Vibrio, Pseudoalteromonas, and 
Photobacterium.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that sponge microbiome diversity and, by 
extension, its resilience depend on the maintenance of resident bacterial 
community members, irrespective of their abundance. Phage-induced disturbances 
can significantly alter community structure by promoting the growth of 
opportunistic bacteria like Vibrio and shifting the microbiome to a dysbiotic 
state. These insights highlight the role of bacteriophages in shaping microbiome 
dynamics and underscore the potential for phage application in managing 
bacterial community composition in marine host-associated environments.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40793-024-00637-7
PMCID: PMC11590407
PMID: 39593141

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study does not contain any studies with human participants or 
animals that require specific ethical approval. Consent for publication: Not 
applicable. Competing interests: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. BMC Med. 2024 Nov 26;22(1):558. doi: 10.1186/s12916-024-03771-8.

Carrageenan and insulin resistance in humans: a randomised double-blind 
cross-over trial.

Wagner R(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Buettner J(7), Heni M(8)(9)(10)(11)(12), Fritsche 
L(9)(10), Kullmann S(9)(10)(13), Wagmüller M(8)(11), Peter A(9)(10)(12), Preissl 
H(9)(10)(13)(14), Machann J(9)(10)(15), Jumpertz von Schwartzenberg R(8)(9)(10), 
Birkenfeld AL(8)(9)(10), Pape UF(7)(16), van Hall G(17)(18), Plomgaard P(18), 
Häring HU(8)(9)(10), Fritsche A(8)(9)(10), Thompson KN(19), Klein R(20), Stefan 
N(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetology 
and Nephrology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. 
robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(2)Institute for Diabetes Research and Metabolic Diseases (IDM) of the Helmholtz 
Centre Munich at the University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. 
robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(3)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Neuherberg, Germany. 
robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology, Medical Faculty and University 
Hospital, Heinrich Heine University, Moorenstr 5, Düsseldorf, 40225, Germany. 
robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(5)Institute for Clinical Diabetology, German Diabetes Center, Leibniz Center 
for Diabetes Research at Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany. 
robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Microbiome Analysis Core, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Boston, USA. robert.wagner@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(7)Department of Hepatology and Gastroenterology, Charité Universitätsmedizin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine IV, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetology 
and Nephrology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(9)Institute for Diabetes Research and Metabolic Diseases (IDM) of the Helmholtz 
Centre Munich at the University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(10)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Neuherberg, Germany.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine I, Ulm University Hospital, Ulm, Germany.
(12)Institute for Clinical Chemistry and Pathobiochemistry, Department for 
Diagnostic Laboratory Medicine, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, 
Germany.
(13)Institute for Diabetes and Obesity, Helmholtz Diabetes Center, Helmholtz 
Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), 
Neuherberg, Germany.
(14)Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Department of Pharmacy and 
Biochemistry; Interfaculty Centre for Pharmacogenomics and Pharma Research at 
the Eberhard Karls University Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(15)Section On Experimental Radiology, Department of Diagnostic and 
Interventional Radiology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
(16)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Asklepios Klinik St. 
Georg, Hamburg, Germany.
(17)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(18)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(19)Department of Biostatistics, Microbiome Analysis Core, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Boston, USA.
(20)Department of Internal Medicine II, Division of Haematology, Oncology, 
Immunology and Rheumatology, University Hospital of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The potential impact of specific food additives, common in Western 
diets, on the risk of developing type 2 diabetes is not well understood. This 
study focuses on carrageenan, a widely used food additive known to induce 
insulin resistance and gut inflammation in animal models, and its effects on 
human health.
METHODS: In a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial 
conducted at a university hospital metabolic study centre, 20 males (age 27.4 ± 
4.3 years, BMI 24.5 ± 2.5 kg/m2) participated. The intervention involved oral 
intake of carrageenan (250 mg) or placebo in the morning and in the evening and 
each intervention lasted 2 weeks. The primary outcome measured was insulin 
sensitivity (using oral glucose tolerance test [OGTT] and 
hyperinsulinaemic-euglycaemic clamp). Additional end-points included whole body 
and hepatic insulin sensitivity, MRI-measured brain inflammation and insulin 
resistance, intestinal permeability (via lactulose-mannitol test and plasma 
zonulin levels), and gut microbiome composition. Immune-cell activation and 
pro-inflammatory cytokine release from peripheral blood mononuclear cells were 
measured.
RESULTS: Overall insulin sensitivity did not show significant differences 
between the treatments. However, interactions between BMI and treatment were 
observed (OGTT-based insulin sensitivity index: p=0.04, fasting insulin 
resistance: p=0.01, hepatic insulin sensitivity index: p=0.04). In overweight 
participants, carrageenan exposure resulted in lower whole body and hepatic 
insulin sensitivity, a trend towards increased brain inflammation, and elevated 
C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 levels compared to placebo. Additionally, 
carrageenan was associated with increased intestinal permeability. In vitro 
natural killer (NK-)cell activation and increased pro-inflammatory cytokine 
release were found after carrageenan exposure in the participant's peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that carrageenan, a common food additive, 
may contribute to insulin resistance and subclinical inflammation in overweight 
individuals through pro-inflammatory mechanisms in the gut. Further 
investigation into the long-term health impacts of carrageenan and other food 
additives is warranted.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02629705.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-024-03771-8
PMCID: PMC11590543
PMID: 39593091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: The study was approved by the Ethical Committee of the Medical 
Faculty of the University of Tübingen, Germany (project number 359/2012BO1). All 
participants provided written informed consent. Consent for publication: All 
authors have reviewed and approved the manuscript for submission. Competing 
interests: RW reports lecture fees from NovoNordisk, Eli Lilly, 
Boehringer-Ingelheim and Sanofi, and travel grants from Eli Lilly, Sanofi and 
NovoNordisk. He served on the advisory board of Akcea Therapeutics, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Sanofi and NovoNordisk. Outside of the current work, MH reports research 
grants from Boehringer Ingelheim and Sanofi to the University Hospital of 
Tübingen, participation in advisory board for Boehringer Ingelheim and Sanofi 
and lecture fees from Amryt, Bayer, Sanofi, Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk and 
Boehringer Ingelheim.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 25;288:117383. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117383. Online ahead of print.

Effects of leachate from disposable plastic takeout containers on the 
cardiovascular system after thermal contact.

Wu Y(1), Li Z(2), Shi L(3), Zhu Y(4), Wang Y(5), Yan N(6), Yang Y(7), He S(8), 
Li J(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
wuyueping202206@163.com.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
925486834@qq.com.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
392167288@qq.com.
(4)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
1770948964@qq.com.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
wyrong0609@163.com.
(6)Heart Centre & Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, General Hospital of 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
yanning169@yahoo.com.
(7)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
1730937470@qq.com.
(8)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China; Key Laboratory of 
Environmental Factors and Chronic Disease Control, Ningxia Medical 
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
heshulan0954@163.com.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics, School of public health, 
Ningxia Medical University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China; Key Laboratory of 
Environmental Factors and Chronic Disease Control, Ningxia Medical 
University, Yinchuan, Ningxia 750004, China. Electronic address: 
lijp@nxmu.edu.cn.

The study investigated the cardiovascular effects of daily exposure to plastic 
products by simulating the oral heat exposure mode of disposable plastic takeout 
containers (DPTC) commonly used in society. Questionnaires were used to randomly 
choose 3179 people in order to examine any possible correlation between the 
frequency of plastic exposure and the risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). 
Additionally, Sprague-Dawley(SD) rats consumed leachate from DPTC exposed to 
boiling water for 1 minute，5 minutes and 15 minutes respectively, over three 
months. After intervention, fecal samples were taken for microbiota and 
metabolomics analysis, and rat cardiac tissue was studied by staining and 
electron microscopy. Serum parameters were tested to analyze cardiovascular 
system changes. The population-based plastic exposure questionnaire data 
revealed that high-frequency exposure to plastics is significantly associated 
with an increased risk of congestive heart failure, with an odds ratio of 1.13 
(95 % CI: 1.03-1.24). Rat fecal analysis revealed that β diversity and 
composition of gut microbiota in experimental groups were changed. Inflammatory 
cell infiltration, mitochondrial swelling, and serum indicators of oxidative 
stress and inflammation were significantly elevated in the myocardium, without 
temporal differences observed. The study shows plastic exposure as a significant 
CVD risk factor regardless of duration. It leads to changes in myocardial 
tissue, gut microbiota, and metabolites, all closely tied to CVD.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117383
PMID: 39591733

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Toxins (Basel). 2024 Nov 1;16(11):471. doi: 10.3390/toxins16110471.

Regional and Longitudinal Dynamics of Cyanobacterial Blooms/Cyanobiome and 
Cyanotoxin Production in the Great Lakes Area.

Saleem F(1), Jiang JL(1), Li E(1), Tran K(1), Boere A(1), Rahman M(1), Paschos 
A(1), Westrick JA(2), Zastepa A(3), Edge TA(1), Schellhorn HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada.
(2)Lumigen Instrument Center, Wayne State University, 5101 Cass Ave., Detroit, 
MI 48202, USA.
(3)Environment and Climate Change Canada, Canada Centre for Inland Waters, 867 
Lakeshore Road, Burlington, ON L7S 1A1, Canada.

Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae) are a diverse group of prokaryotic 
microorganisms that impact global biogeochemical cycles. Under eutrophic 
conditions, cyanobacterial species can produce cyanotoxins, resulting in harmful 
algal blooms (cHABs) that degrade water quality and result in economic and 
recreational losses. The Laurentian Great Lakes, a key global freshwater source, 
are increasingly affected by these blooms. To understand the underlying 
mechanisms in cHAB formation, we investigated microcystin levels, cyanotoxin 
genes/transcripts, and taxonomic/microcystin metabarcoding across three sampling 
locations in the Canadian Great Lakes region, including Hamilton Harbour, Bay of 
Quinte, and Three Mile Lake (Muskoka), to observe the regional and longitudinal 
cyanobacterial dynamics. The results revealed a positive correlation between 
microcystin levels, the occurrence of cyanobacterial taxonomic/cyanotoxin 
molecular markers, and the relative widespread abundance of specific dominant 
cyanobacterial taxa, including Planktothrix, Microcystis, and Dolichospermum. 
The Cyanobium genus was not observed in Hamilton Harbor samples during late 
summer (August to September), while it was consistently observed in the Three 
Mile Lake and Bay of Quinte samples. Notably, Dolichospermum and saxitoxin genes 
were predominantly higher in Three Mile Lake (an inland lake), suggesting 
site-specific characteristics influencing saxitoxin production. Additionally, 
among the potential microcystin producers, in addition to Microcystis, Hamilton 
Harbour and Bay of Quinte samples showed consistent presence of less dominant 
microcystin-producing taxa, including Phormidium and Dolichospermum. This study 
highlights the complexity of cHAB formation and the variability in cyanotoxin 
production in specific environments. The findings highlight regional and 
site-specific factors that can influence cyanobacterial taxonomic and molecular 
profiles, necessitating the integration of advanced molecular technologies for 
effective monitoring and targeted management strategies.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins16110471
PMCID: PMC11598720
PMID: 39591226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Ecol Evol. 2024 Nov 25;14(11):e70552. doi: 10.1002/ece3.70552. eCollection
2024  Nov.

Parent-Specific Transgenerational Immune Priming Enhances Offspring 
Defense-Unless Heat Stress Negates It All.

Schneider RF(1)(2), Dubin A(1)(2), Marten SM(1)(2), Roth O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Marine Evolutionary Biology University of Kiel Kiel 
Germany.
(2)Department of Marine Evolutionary Ecology Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research 
Kiel Germany.

Transgenerational immune priming (TGIP) adjusts offspring's immune responses 
based on parental immunological experiences. It is predicted to be adaptive when 
parent-offspring environmental conditions match, while mismatches negate those 
advantages, rendering TGIP potentially costly. We tested these cost-benefit 
dynamics in the pipefish Syngnathus typhle (Syngnathidae). Because of their 
unique male pregnancy, egg production and rearing occur in different sexes, 
providing both parents multiple avenues for TGIP. Parental bacteria exposure in 
our pipefish was simulated through vaccinations with heat-killed Vibrio 
aestuarianus before mating the fish to each other or to controls. The resulting 
offspring were exposed to V. aestuarianus in control or heat stress 
environments, after which transcriptome and microbiome compositions were 
investigated. Transcriptomic TGIP effects were only observed in Vibrio-exposed 
offspring at control temperatures, arguing for low costs of TGIP in non-matching 
microbiota environments. Transcriptomic phenotypes elicited by maternal and 
paternal TGIP had limited overlap and were not additive. Parentally induced 
transcriptomic responses were associated with immune functions, and 
specifically, the paternal response to the innate immune branch, possibly 
hinting at trained immunity. TGIP of both parents reduced the relative abundance 
of the experimental Vibrio in exposed offspring, showcasing its ecological 
benefits. Despite TGIP's significance in matching biotic environments, no 
TGIP-associated phenotypes were observed for heat-treated offspring, 
illustrating its limitations. Heat spikes caused by climate change thus threaten 
TGIP benefits, potentially increasing susceptibility to emerging marine 
diseases. We demonstrate the urgent need to understand how animals cope with 
climate-induced changes in microbial assemblages to assess their vulnerability 
in light of climate change.

© 2024 The Author(s). Ecology and Evolution published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.70552
PMCID: PMC11586686
PMID: 39588349

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. World Allergy Organ J. 2024 Nov 8;17(11):100988. doi: 
10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100988. eCollection 2024 Nov.

Global change, climate change, and asthma in children: Direct and indirect 
effects - A WAO Pediatric Asthma Committee Report.

Le Souëf PN(1), Adachi Y(2), Anastasiou E(3), Ansotegui IJ(4), Badellino HA(5), 
Banzon T(6), Beltrán CP(7), D'Amato G(8), El-Sayed ZA(9), Gómez RM(10), Hossny 
E(9), Kalayci Ö(11), Morais-Almeida M(12), Nieto-Garcia A(13), Peden DB(6)(14), 
Phipatanakul W(6), Wang JY(15), Wan IJ(16), Wong G(17), Xepapadaki P(3), 
Papadopoulos NG(3)(18).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Western Australia and Telethon Kids 
Institute, Perth, Australia.
(2)Pediatric Allergy Center, Toyama Red Cross Hospital, Toyama, Japan.
(3)Allergy Department, 2nd Paediatric Clinic, National and Kapodistrian 
University of Athens, Athens, Greece.
(4)Hospital Quironsalud Bizkaia, Erandio - Bilbao, Spain.
(5)Faculty of Psychology. UCES University. San Francisco, Argentina.
(6)Division of Allergy and Immunology, Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(7)Pediatric Allergy and Immunology, Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, 
Mexico City, Mexico.
(8)Division of Respiratory Diseases and Allergy, High Specialty Hospital 
A.Cardarelli, Naples and School of Specialization in Respiratory Disease, 
University of Naples Federico II, Italy.
(9)Pediatric Allergy, Immunology, And Rheumatology Unit, Children's Hospital, 
Ain Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(10)Faculty of Health Sciences, Catholic University of Salta, Argentina.
(11)Hacettepe University School of Medicine, Ankara, Turkey.
(12)Allergy Center Hospital CUF-Descobertas, Lisbon, Portugal.
(13)Pediatric Pulmonology and Allergy Unit, Hospital Universitari i Politècnic 
La Fe, Health Research Institute La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
(14)Center for Environmental Medicine, Asthma and Lung Biology Division of 
Pediatric Allergy & Immunology, The School of Medicine, The University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(15)Allergy, Immunology and Microbiome Research Center, China Medical University 
Children's Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(16)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Hospital Ministry of Health and Welfare, 
School of Medicine, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, China Medical 
University, Taiwan.
(17)Department of Paediatrics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of 
Wales Hospital, Hong Kong.
(18)Division of Infection, Immunity and Respiratory Medicine, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK.

The twenty-first century has seen a fundamental shift in disease epidemiology 
with anthropogenic environmental change emerging as the likely dominant factor 
affecting the distribution and severity of current and future human disease. 
This is especially true of allergic diseases and asthma with their intimate 
relationship with the natural environment. Climate change-related variables 
including increased ambient temperature, heat waves, extreme weather events, air 
pollution, and rainfall distribution, all can directly affect asthma in 
children, but each of these variables also indirectly affects asthma via 
alterations in pollen production and release, outdoor allergen exposure or the 
microbiome. Air pollution, with its many and varied respiratory consequences, is 
likely to have the greatest effect, as it has increased globally due to rapid 
increases in fossil fuel combustion, global population, crowding, and 
megacities, as well as forest burning and trees succumbing to an increasingly 
hostile environment. Human activities have also caused substantial deterioration 
of the global microbiome with reductions in biodiversity for molds, bacteria, 
and viruses. Reduced microbiome diversity has, in turn, been associated with 
increases in Th2 allergic responses and allergic disease. The collective effect 
of these changes has already shifted allergy and asthma disease patterns. Given 
that changes in climate have been relatively small to date, the unavoidable, 
much greater shifts in climate in the future are concerning. Determining the 
relative scale of the direct versus indirect effects of climate change variables 
is needed if effective avoidance and adaptive measures are to be implemented. 
This would also require much more basic, epidemiological, and clinical research 
to understand the causal mechanisms, the most relevant climate factors involved, 
the regions most affected and, most importantly, effective and actionable 
adaptation measures. We suggest that allergy and respiratory health workers 
should follow current guidance to reduce present risks related to climate change 
and watch for new recommendations to reduce future risks. Since the respiratory 
system is the one most affected by climate change, they also need to call for 
more research in this area and show strong leadership in advocating for urgent 
action to protect children by reducing or reversing factors that have led to our 
deteriorating climate.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.waojou.2024.100988
PMCID: PMC11584610
PMID: 39582513

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.

1. Environ Toxicol Pharmacol. 2024 Nov 20;112:104591. doi: 
10.1016/j.etap.2024.104591. Online ahead of print.

Synbiotics, a promising approach for alleviating exacerbated allergic airway 
immune responses in offspring of a preclinical murine pollution model.

Dehghani A(1), Wang L(2), Garssen J(3), Styla E(4), Leusink-Muis T(4), Van Ark 
I(4), Folkerts G(4), Van Bergenhenegouwen J(3), Braber S(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands; Department of 
Public and Occupational Health, Amsterdam University of Medical 
Science, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(2)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands; Department of 
Pathology and Medical Biology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, Netherlands.
(3)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands; Danone Nutricia 
Research, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(4)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands.
(5)Division of Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute for Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Faculty of Science, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands; Danone Nutricia 
Research, Utrecht, Netherlands. Electronic address: S.Braber@uu.nl.

Exposure to pollutants like environmental cigarette smoke (CS) poses a major 
global health risk, affecting individuals from an early age. Therefore, this 
study explores how postnatal synbiotic supplementation affects allergic asthma 
symptoms in house-dust-mite (HDM)- challenged offspring maternally exposed to 
CS. In HDM-allergic offspring of CS-exposed dams, lung resistance was elevated, 
but synbiotic supplementation effectively reduced this resistance. Elevated 
eosinophil BALF counts following HDM challenge were intensified in pups 
maternally exposed to CS. Similarly, Th2 cell activation and serum IgE and IgG1 
levels were more pronounced in HDM-allergic offspring of CS-exposed mothers. 
Synbiotics reduced eosinophil numbers and serum IgE and IgG1, and tended to 
decrease Th2 cell infiltration and activation. Synbiotics promoted beneficial 
gut bacteria like Bifidobacterium and Akkermansia. In conclusion, early-life 
synbiotic intervention mitigated allergic asthma associated with maternal air 
pollution exposure, highlighting the potential of synbiotics for clinical 
evaluation as a strategy to prevent allergy development in offspring.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.etap.2024.104591
PMID: 39577477

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Johan Garssen reports financial 
support was provided by Danone Nutricia Research. Jeroen van Bergenhenegouwen 
reports a relationship with Danone Nutricia Research that includes: employment. 
Johan Garssen reports a relationship with Danone Nutricia Research that 
includes: employment. Saskia Braber reports a relationship with Danone Nutricia 
Research that includes: employment. The remaining authors declare that they have 
no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. If there are other 
authors, they declare that they have no known competing financial interests or 
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported 
in this paper.

1. Front Med (Lausanne). 2024 Nov 6;11:1477882. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1477882. 
eCollection 2024.

Gut dysbiosis mediates the association between antibiotic exposure and chronic 
disease.

Guarner F(1), Bustos Fernandez L(2), Cruchet S(3), Damião A(4), Maruy Saito 
A(5), Riveros Lopez JP(6), Rodrigues Silva L(7), Valdovinos Diaz MA(8).

Author information:
(1)Centro Medico Teknon, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Centro Medico Bustos Fernandez, Instituto de Gastroenterologia, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(3)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, 
Chile.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, University of São Paulo School of Medicine, 
São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Catedra de Pediatria, Hospital Cayetano Heredia, Universidad Peruana Cayetano 
Heredia, Lima, Peru.
(6)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, El Bosque University, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(7)Pediatric Gastroenterology Service, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, 
Brazil.
(8)Servicio de Gastroenterología, Hospital Médica Sur, Ciudad de México, Mexico.

Antibiotics are safe, effective drugs and continue to save millions of lives and 
prevent long-term illness worldwide. A large body of epidemiological, 
interventional and experimental evidence shows that exposure to antibiotics has 
long-term negative effects on human health. We reviewed the literature data on 
the links between antibiotic exposure, gut dysbiosis, and chronic disease 
(notably with regard to the "developmental origins of health and disease" 
("DOHaD") approach). Molecular biology studies show that the systemic 
administration of antibiotic to infants has a rapid onset but also often a 
long-lasting impact on the microbial composition of the gut. Along with other 
environmental factors (e.g., an unhealthy "Western" diet and sedentary 
behavior), antibiotics induce gut dysbiosis, which can be defined as the 
disruption of a previously stable, functionally complete microbiota. Gut 
dysbiosis many harmful long-term effects on health. Associations between 
early-life exposure to antibiotics have been reported for chronic diseases, 
including inflammatory bowel disease, celiac disease, some cancers, metabolic 
diseases (obesity and type 2 diabetes), allergic diseases, autoimmune disorders, 
atherosclerosis, arthritis, and neurodevelopmental, neurodegenerative and other 
neurological diseases. In mechanistic terms, gut dysbiosis influences chronic 
disease through direct effects on mucosal immune and inflammatory pathways, plus 
a wide array of direct or indirect effects of short-chain fatty acids, the 
enteric nervous system, peristaltic motility, the production of hormones and 
neurotransmitters, and the loss of intestinal barrier integrity (notably with 
leakage of the pro-inflammatory endotoxin lipopolysaccharide into the 
circulation). To mitigate dysbiosis, the administration of probiotics in 
patients with chronic disease is often (but not always) associated with positive 
effects on clinical markers (e.g., disease scores) and biomarkers of 
inflammation and immune activation. Meta-analyses are complicated by differences 
in probiotic composition, dose level, and treatment duration, and large, 
randomized, controlled clinical trials are lacking in many disease areas. In 
view of the critical importance of deciding whether or not to prescribe 
antibiotics (especially to children), we suggest that the DOHaD concept can be 
logically extended to "gastrointestinal origins of health and disease" ("GOHaD") 
or even "microbiotic origins of health and disease" ("MOHaD").

Copyright © 2024 Guarner, Bustos Fernandez, Cruchet, Damião, Maruy Saito, 
Riveros Lopez, Rodrigues Silva and Valdovinos Diaz.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2024.1477882
PMCID: PMC11576192
PMID: 39568738

Conflict of interest statement: FG received research grants from Abbvie, Takeda, 
and AB-Biotics and was a member of the Biocodex Microbiota Institute’s 
scientific advisory board. The remaining authors declare that the study was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.

1. Environ Health (Wash). 2024 Jul 2;2(11):802-815. doi:
10.1021/envhealth.4c00050.  eCollection 2024 Nov 15.

Prenatal PM(2.5) Exposure Associated with Neonatal Gut Bacterial Colonization 
and Early Children's Cognitive Development.

Liu Y(1)(2), Zhang L(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Sui X(1)(2), Li J(1)(2), Gui Y(1)(2), 
Wang H(1)(2), Zhao Y(1)(2), Xu Y(1)(2), Cao W(1)(2), Wang P(3), Zhang Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Lab of Health Technology Assessment, National Health Commission of the 
People's Republic of China (Fudan University), Shanghai 200032, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Public Health Safety, Ministry of Education, School of 
Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health, 
Zhengzhou University, Henan 450001, China.

Previous research indicated that fine particulate matter (PM2.5) exposure 
affected both offspring neurodevelopment and the colonization of gut microbiota 
(GM), while the underlying mechanism remained unclear. Our study aimed to 
evaluate the impacts of prenatal PM2.5 exposure on child cognitive development 
and investigate the role of neonatal GM colonization in the association. Based 
on the Shanghai Maternal-Child Pairs Cohort, 361 maternal-child pairs were 
recruited. Prenatal PM2.5 exposure concentrations were estimated using a 
high-spatial-resolution prediction model, and child neurodevelopment was 
assessed by the Ages and Stages Questionnaire. Multivariable linear regression 
models, logistic regression models, linear discriminant analysis effect size, 
and random forest model were applied to explore the associations among PM2.5 
exposure, GM colonization, and children's neurodevelopment. The present study 
revealed a negative correlation between PM2.5 exposure throughout pregnancy and 
child neurodevelopment. Prenatal PM2.5 exposure was associated with an increased 
risk of suspected developmental delay (SDD) (OR = 1.683, 95% CI: 1.138, 2.489) 
in infants aged 2 months. Additionally, potential operational taxonomic unit 
markers were identified for PM2.5-related neurotoxicity, demonstrating promising 
classification potential for early SDD screening (AUC = 71.27%). Prenatal PM2.5 
exposure might disrupt the composition, richness, and evenness of meconium GM, 
thereby influencing cognitive development and the occurrence of SDD in 
offspring. Seven PM2.5-related genera, Ruminococcus gnavus group, Romboutsia, 
Burkholderiaceae Caballeronia Paraburkholderia, Blautia, Alistipes, 
Parabacteroides, and Bacteroides, were validated as correlated with prenatal 
PM2.5 exposure and the occurrence of SDD. Moreover, alterations of GM related to 
PM2.5 exposure and SDD might be accompanied by changes in functional pathways of 
amino acid, lipid, and vitamin metabolism as indicated by differentially 
enriched species in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes.

© 2024 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/envhealth.4c00050
PMCID: PMC11574624
PMID: 39568692

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.

1. J World Fed Orthod. 2024 Nov 19:S2212-4438(24)00085-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejwf.2024.10.001. Online ahead of print.

Microplastics and orthodontic aligners: The concerns arising from the 
modernization of practice through polymers and plastics.

Panayi N(1), Papageorgiou SN(2), Eliades G(3), Eliades T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, European University Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(2)Clinic of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, Center for Dental Medicine, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Biomaterials, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, 
Athens, Greece.
(4)Clinic of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, Center for Dental Medicine, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
theodore.eliades@zzm.uzh.ch.

Plastic aligners have transformed orthodontics, offering a discreet, 
comfortable, and aesthetically pleasing alternative to traditional fixed 
appliances. While they have advantages over fixed appliances, they come with 
environmental and health concerns due to the use of nonbiodegradable plastics, 
such as the leaching of Bisphenol-A (BPA) and microplastics that can impact 
human health directly through ingestion. Studies have shown that plastic 
aligners release microplastics during use, raising concerns about their 
potential health effects and environmental pollution. The potential health 
effects of ingested microplastics extend beyond gut microbiota disruption to 
impact various systems in the body. Research suggests that microplastic exposure 
can lead to respiratory complications, cardiovascular risks, and implications 
for brain health and cognitive function. The mechanisms of microplastic uptake 
into the body through inhalation, ingestion, and skin contact are essential for 
understanding how these particles interact with human tissues and organs. By 
prioritizing patient safety, responsible practices, and advancing scientific 
knowledge the orthodontic community can work towards mitigating the potential 
health impacts associated with microplastic exposure from aligners.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejwf.2024.10.001
PMID: 39567342

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Nov 18;364(Pt 1):125339. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125339.  Online ahead of print.

Gut microbiota combined with metabolome dissects Fluorene-9-bisphenol 
exposure-induced male reproductive toxicity.

Jiang D(1), Yang Y(1), Han X(1), Li Q(1), Jiao J(1), Ma Y(1), Chao L(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 250012, China.
(2)Center for Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 250012, China. Electronic address: 
chaolan@email.sdu.edu.cn.

A major alternative to bisphenol A (BPA), fluorene-9-bisphenol (BHPF) has been 
shown to cause multiorgan toxicity. However, its reproductive toxicity and the 
underlying biological mechanism remain largely unknown. Recently, changes in the 
gut microbiota and metablome caused by environmental contaminant exposure and 
their potential impact on male reproductive health have been of great concern. 
Therefore, we aimed to elucidate the underlying mechanism of BHPF-related 
fertility impairment by integrating metabolome and microbiome analysis. In the 
present study, we showed that BHPF exposure caused testicular dysfunction with 
impaired spermatogenesis and disrupted steroid hormone synthesis. 
Mechanistically, altered gut microbiota and metabolites were revealed by 16S 
rDNA sequencing and untargeted metabolomics analysis. Subsequent multi-omics 
combination analysis revealed a strong correlation between altered microbiota 
and lipid metabolites. We also found a strong relationship between lipid 
metabolites and sperm parameters such as sperm concentration, sperm motility, 
etc. Most importantly, these findings provide new insights into the mechanistic 
scenario underlying BHPF-induced fertility toxicity, that disrupted lipid 
metabolism caused by gut microbiota dysbiosis may be a reason for reproductive 
impairment caused by BHPF exposure.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125339
PMID: 39566706

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Curr Opin Immunol. 2024 Dec;91:102505. doi: 10.1016/j.coi.2024.102505. Epub
2024  Nov 19.

Mechanisms and risk factors for perinatal allergic disease.

Balla J(1), Rathore AP(2), St John AL(3).

Author information:
(1)Programme in Emerging Infectious Diseases, Duke-National University of 
Singapore Medical School, 169857 Singapore.
(2)Programme in Emerging Infectious Diseases, Duke-National University of 
Singapore Medical School, 169857 Singapore; Department of Pathology, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA.
(3)Programme in Emerging Infectious Diseases, Duke-National University of 
Singapore Medical School, 169857 Singapore; Department of Pathology, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA; Department of 
Microbiology and Immunology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore; SingHealth Duke-NUS Global Health Institute, 
Singapore. Electronic address: ashley.st.john@duke-nus.edu.sg.

Allergies are among the top causes of chronic disease in children. Their 
pathogenesis classically involves T helper 2 (Th2)-type inflammation driven by 
IgE-mediated allergen sensing. Triggers influencing allergic disease occur early 
in life, including before birth. The immature fetal immune system and mucosal 
barriers undergo periods of plasticity that are open to longitudinal programming 
by maternal influence. Evidence supports the importance of the maternal immune 
system in shaping perinatal immunity, as the transfer of cytokines, antibodies, 
and cells promotes offspring protection from pathogens. However, the same 
components may lead to allergic predisposition. Maternal-fetal interactions are 
further modified by epigenetic, metabolic, dietary, and microbiome-mediated 
effects. Here, we review how diverse maternal exposures and mediators signal 
across the placenta and through nursing perinatally to promote future tolerance 
or enhance reactivity against allergens. Improved understanding of the 
mechanisms predisposing for allergic disease in early life can guide the 
development of new therapeutics and preventative lifestyle modifications.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coi.2024.102505
PMID: 39566249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2024 Dec;16(6):e70032. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.70032.

Metagenomic analysis reveals houseflies as indicators for monitoring 
environmental antibiotic resistance genes.

Yang Y(1), Xu P(1), He W(2), Tao F(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism and School of Life Sciences & 
Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Fifth People's Hospital of Shanghai, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

Given the threat to public health posed by antibiotic resistance transmission, 
environmental monitoring is essential for tracking antibiotic resistance genes 
(ARGs). Houseflies, being ubiquitous organisms capable of carrying and 
disseminating ARGs, serve as suitable indicators for environmental monitoring. 
In this study, we employ metagenomic approaches to investigate housefly body 
surface samples from five typical sites associated with human activities. The 
investigation reveals microbiome diversity among the samples, along with 
variations in the occurrence and mobility potential of ARGs. Metagenomic 
analysis indicates that the composition of ARGs on housefly body surfaces is 
influenced by environmental ARGs, which may be enriched on the housefly body 
surface. The resistance genes related to multidrug, β-lactam, bacitracin, and 
tetracycline were the predominant ARGs detected, with multidrug-related ARGs 
consistently exhibiting dominance. Furthermore, the abundance of ARGs in the 
different housefly body surface samples was found to correlate with the 
population density and mobility of the sampling site. Natural environments 
exhibited the lowest ARG abundance, while areas with higher population density 
and limited population mobility displayed higher ARG abundance. This study 
emphasizes the effectiveness of houseflies as monitors for environmental ARGs 
and underscores their potential for assessing and controlling antibiotic 
resistance risks in urban environments.

© 2024 The Author(s). Environmental Microbiology Reports published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.70032
PMCID: PMC11576324
PMID: 39562308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Environ Monit Assess. 2024 Nov 18;196(12):1212. doi:
10.1007/s10661-024-13387-3.

Fungal community dynamics in a hyper-arid ecosystem after 7 and 47 years of 
petroleum contamination.

Martirosyan V(1), Stavi I(2), Doniger T(3), Applebaum I(3), Sherman C(3), Levi 
M(3), Steinberger Y(4).

Author information:
(1)C-Lab LLC Testing Laboratory, Artashisyan 105, 0038, Yerevan, Armenia.
(2)Dead Sea and Arava Science Center, Yotvata, Israel. istavi@adssc.org.
(3)The Mina and Everard Goodman, Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
5290002, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(4)The Mina and Everard Goodman, Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
5290002, Ramat-Gan, Israel. ysteinberger@gmail.com.

This study investigates the impact of crude oil contamination on the fungal 
community dynamics in the Evrona Nature Reserve, situated in Israel's hyper-arid 
Arava Valley. The reserve experienced petroleum-hydrocarbon-spill pollution at 
two neighboring sites in 1975 and 2014. The initial contamination was left 
untreated, providing a unique opportunity to compare its effects to those of the 
second contamination event. In 2022, soil samples were collected from both 
contaminated areas and nearby clean (control) sites, 47 and 7 years after the 
spills. The taxonomic diversity of fungal community and functional guilds, as 
well as various properties of the soil, were analyzed. We focused on three 
functional groups within fungal communities: saprotrophs, symbiotrophs, and 
pathotrophs. The results revealed a significant decrease in number of fungal 
species in the contaminated samples over time. Consequently, prolonged effect of 
crude oil-contaminated soils can facilitate the development of a distinct fungal 
community, which has adapted to the conditions of oil contamination. This study 
aims to elucidate the dynamics of fungal communities in oil-contaminated soils, 
contributing to a better understanding of their behavior and adaptation in such 
environments.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-024-13387-3
PMID: 39556259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Competing interests The authors 
declare no competing interests.

1. iScience. 2024 Oct 10;27(11):111135. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.111135. 
eCollection 2024 Nov 15.

Toxic effects of DEHP and MEHP on gut-liver axis in rats via intestinal flora 
and metabolomics.

Wang J(1)(2), Liu H(3), Kou X(4), Zhang Y(1), Wang Y(1)(2), Chen C(1), Xiang 
Z(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Su C(5), Liu Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Science, Liaoning University, Shenyang, China.
(2)Shenyang Key Laboratory for Causes and Drug Discovery of Chronic Diseases, 
Shenyang, China.
(3)Liaoning Cancer Hospital & Institute, Shenyang, China.
(4)College of Foreign Languages, Northeastern University, Shenyang, China.
(5)Pharmacy Department, Shenyang Tenth Peoples Hospital, Shenyang, China.

Di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) is an environmental endocrine disruptor and 
commonly used as a plasticizer. Exposure to DEHP and its active metabolite 
mono-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (MEHP) can lead to adverse health consequences; 
however, the toxic mechanism is remains unclear. In this research, male and 
female rats were exposed to DEHP and MEHP by oral gavage for 60 consecutive 
days. Pathological analysis revealed that DEHP and MEHP exposure could affect 
liver, heart, kidney, and testis tissues, as well as alter biochemical 
indicators. Metagenomics (16S rRNA gene sequencing) analysis indicated that DEHP 
and MEHP could reduce the diversity and alter the composition of the gut 
microbiota. Toxic exposure also affected the levels of short chain fatty acids 
(SCFAs), with noticeable variations between genders. Metabolomic analysis 
revealed that DEHP and MEHP could influence bile acids, amino acids, hormones, 
and lipids. These results demonstrate that exposure to DEHP and MEHP can induce 
toxicity in rats via the gut-liver axis.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.111135
PMCID: PMC11565036
PMID: 39555414

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests .

1. bioRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Nov 2:2024.10.28.620741. doi: 
10.1101/2024.10.28.620741.

Detection of airborne Coccidioides spores using lightweight portable air 
samplers affixed to uncrewed aircraft systems in California's Central Valley.

Radosevich MT(1), Dobson S(2), Weaver AK(1), Lampman PTA(3), Kollath D(4), 
Couper L(1), Campbell G(1), Taylor JW(5), Remais JV(1), Kobziar L(3), Markwiese 
J(6), Head JR(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)University of California Berkeley, School of Public Health, Division of 
Environmental Health Sciences, Berkeley, CA 94720.
(2)University of Michigan, School of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109.
(3)University of Idaho, College of Natural Resources, Coeur d'Alene, ID 83814.
(4)Northern Arizona University, Pathogen and Microbiome Institute, Flagstaff, AZ 
86011.
(5)University of California Berkeley, Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, 
Berkeley, CA 94720.
(6)Environmental Protection Agency, Ecology Effects Branch, Corvallis, OR 97333.
(7)University of Michigan, Institute of Global Change Biology, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109.

Coccidioidomycosis is an emerging fungal infection caused by inhalation of 
Coccidioides spp. spores. While airborne dispersal is critical to Coccidioides 
transmission, limited recovery of the pathogen from air has hindered 
understanding of the aerosolization and transport of spores. Here, we examine 
uncrewed aircraft systems (UAS) with portable, active air samplers as a novel 
means of capturing aerosolized Coccidioides and characterizing emissions and 
exposure risk. We sampled in September 2023 in eastern San Luis Obispo County, 
California, in an area with confirmed Coccidioides immitis in soils. We 
completed 41 20-minute flights across 14 sites using UAS equipped with an 8 
L/min bioaerosol sampler and a low-cost particulate matter sensor. We sampled 
source soils and air under ambient conditions using one UAS at 1-10 m altitude, 
and under a simulated high-dust event using two UAS, one at <2 m altitude and 
one at 5-12 m. We detected Coccidioides DNA in two of 41 air samples (4.9%), 
both under ambient conditions at 8 m altitude, representing the highest known 
altitude of airborne Coccidioides detection. Spatially explicit UAS-based 
sampling could enhance understanding of Coccidioides aerobiology and enable 
detection in hard-to-reach or hazardous air masses, including dust storms and 
wildland fire smoke.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.10.28.620741
PMCID: PMC11565810
PMID: 39554148

1. Open Vet J. 2024 Sep;14(9):2116-2128. doi: 10.5455/OVJ.2024.v14.i9.1. Epub
2024  Sep 30.

Spread of livestock-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus in 
poultry and its risks to public health: A comprehensive review.

Khairullah AR(1), Widodo A(2), Riwu KHP(3), Yanestria SM(4), Moses IB(5), 
Effendi MH(6), Fauzia KA(7)(8), Fauziah I(1), Hasib A(9), Kusala MKJ(1), Raissa 
R(10), Silaen OSM(11), Ramandinianto SC(12), Afnani DA(13).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Veterinary Science, National Research and Innovation 
Agency (BRIN), Bogor, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Health, Faculty of Vocational Studies, Universitas Airlangga, 
Surabaya, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Pendidikan Mandalika, Mataram, Indonesia.
(4)Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universitas Wijaya Kusuma Surabaya, Surabaya, 
Indonesia.
(5)Department of Applied Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Ebonyi State 
University, Abakaliki, Nigeria.
(6)Division of Veterinary Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(7)Research Center for Preclinical and Clinical Medicine, National Research and 
Innovation Agency (BRIN), Bogor, Indonesia.
(8)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Oita University, Yufu, Japan.
(9)School of Agriculture and Food Sustainability, The University of Queensland, 
Gatton, Australia.
(10)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universitas 
Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(11)Doctoral Program in Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia.
(12)Lingkar Satwa Animal Care Clinic, Surabaya, Indonesia.
(13)Department of Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
Universitas Pendidikan Mandalika, Mataram, Indonesia.

The livestock-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (LA-MRSA) 
strains are prevalent in the poultry farming environment and are a common 
component of the bacterial microbiota on the skin and mucous membranes of 
healthy animals. The origin and spread of LA-MRSA are attributed to the use of 
antibiotics in animals, and close contact between people and different animal 
species increases the risk of animal exposure to humans. The epidemiology of 
LA-MRSA in poultry significantly changed when ST398 and ST9 were found in 
food-producing animals. The significance of LA-MRSA and zoonotic risk associated 
with handling and processing foods of avian origin is highlighted by the LA-MRSA 
strain's ability to infect chickens. People who work with poultry are more prone 
to contract LA-MRSA than the general population. There is scientific consensus 
that individuals who have close contact with chickens can become colonized and 
subsequently infected with LA-MRSA; these individuals could include breeders, 
medical professionals, or personnel at chicken slaughterhouses. The prevention 
of LA-MRSA infections and diseases of poultry origin requires taking precautions 
against contamination across the entire chicken production chain.

DOI: 10.5455/OVJ.2024.v14.i9.1
PMCID: PMC11563600
PMID: 39553759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Nov 19;957:177532. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177532.  Online ahead of print.

Effects of dechlorane plus on hepatic pathology, metabolic health and gut 
microbiota in male mice.

Liu W(1), He Q(1), Yue C(1), Xu T(2), Hang X(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Dalian Maritime University, 
Dalian 116026, China.
(2)PET/CT Center, Key Laboratory of Functional Molecular Imaging, Affiliated 
Zhongshan Hospital of Dalian University, Dalian 116001, China.
(3)College of Environmental Science and Engineering, Dalian Maritime University, 
Dalian 116026, China. Electronic address: hangxiaoming@dlmu.edu.cn.

Dechlorane plus (DP), a widely used flame retardant, was added to Annex A of the 
Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2023. This study aimed 
to investigate the effects of DP on glucose and lipid metabolism by orally 
exposing eight-week-old male mice to environmentally relevant concentrations of 
DP (0.5, 1, and 5 mg/kg/day) for six weeks. The in vivo effects of DP on liver 
histomorphology, glucose and lipid metabolism, intestinal microbiota, and the 
associated molecular mechanisms were assessed. Pathological examination revealed 
that exposure to 1 and 5 mg/kg/day DP induced hepatic damage, characterized by 
structural disarray of the hepatic cords and vacuolar degeneration of liver 
cells, while 0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day DP exposure led to significant triglycerides 
(TG) accumulation in the liver. Metabolite analysis showed a marked increase in 
hepatic pyruvate, glycogen, and TG in mice exposed to 0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day DP, 
while 5 mg/kg/day exposure resulted in elevated glycogen levels and reduced 
pyruvate and glucose concentrations. The underlying mechanisms involved the 
transcriptional regulation of key enzymes related to glucose and lipid 
metabolism, as well as the activation of the PI3K/AKT pathway. Exposure to 
5 mg/kg/day DP upregulated genes associated with glycogenesis (GK), glycolysis 
(HK1 and PK), and fatty acid synthesis (SREBP1, FAS, and ACC1), while 
downregulating genes involved in gluconeogenesis (PCK1) and fatty acid 
β-oxidation (CPT1 and PPARA). The activated PI3K/AKT pathway regulated key 
proteins (GLUT4, GSK3β, and FoxO1), playing distinct roles in glucose and lipid 
metabolism. High-throughput 16S rDNA sequencing revealed that 5 mg/kg/day DP 
exposure altered the composition and diversity of intestinal microbiota, 
reducing the relative abundance of beneficial probiotics at both the phylum and 
genus levels. These findings offer new insights into the complex mechanisms 
through which DP affects glucose and lipid metabolism in mammals, contributing 
to a more comprehensive evaluation of its toxicity.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177532
PMID: 39551218

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Am J Infect Control. 2024 Nov 15:S0196-6553(24)00846-0. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajic.2024.11.006. Online ahead of print.

No detrimental effect on the hand microbiome of health care staff by frequent 
alcohol-based antisepsis.

Kramer A(1), Dahl MB(2), Bengtsson MM(2), Boyce JM(3), Heckmann M(4), Meister 
M(2), Papke R(1), Pittet D(5), Reinhard A(2), Slevogt H(6), Wang H(2), Zwicker 
P(1), Urich T(2), Seifert U(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hygiene and Environmental Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany; Section Antiseptic Stewardship of the German 
Society of Hospital Hygiene e. V., Berlin, Germany.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, Bacterial Physiology, University of Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(3)J.M. Boyce Consulting, LLC, Hyde Park, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Neonatology and Pediatric Intensive Care, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany; DZKJ (German Centre for Child and Adolescent 
Health), partner site Greifswald/Rostock, Greifswald, Germany.
(5)Infection Control Programme and WHO Collaborating Centre on Infection 
Prevention and Control & Antimicrobial Resistance, University of Geneva, Faculty 
of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Hannover Medical 
School, German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Breath, Hannover, Germany; 
Respiratory Infection Dynamics Group, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(7)Section Antiseptic Stewardship of the German Society of Hospital Hygiene e. 
V., Berlin, Germany; Friedrich Loeffler-Institute of Medical 
Microbiology-Virology, University Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. 
Electronic address: ulrike.seifert@med.uni-greifswald.de.

BACKGROUND: The importance of ethanol-based hand rubs (EBHR) to prevent health 
care-associated infections is undisputed. However, there is a lack of meaningful 
data regarding the influence of EBHRs on skin microbiome.
METHODS: Four nurses in a neonatal intensive care unit were included. After a 
leave of 14 days, samples were taken before the first hand rubbing action and at 
the end of shift, with continued sampling on days 1, 7 and 28. To analyze the 
hand microbiome, microbial cells were collected using the glove-juice technique. 
Pro- and eukaryotic community profiles were created using amplicon sequencing of 
16S and 18S rRNA gene markers.
RESULTS: On average, hand antisepsis was performed 108 times per 8-hour work 
shift. Microbial communities were dominated by typical taxa found on human skin. 
In addition, a clear nurse-specific (i.e. individual) microbiome signature could 
be observed. For Prokaryota, daily exposure led to the end-of-the-day 
microbiomes being more similar to each other across nurses. In contrast, 
longitudinal effect of 28 day-application revealed more similarity of the 
Eukaryotic community.
CONCLUSIONS: Frequent occupational use of EBHR did not adversely affect the 
composition of the human hand microbiome. Thus, daily hand antisepsis retains 
its significance as the most important procedure for infection control.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2024.11.006
PMID: 39551096

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136477. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136477.
Epub  2024 Nov 12.

Microplastics abundance associated with farmland use types and the impact on 
soil microbial communities: A case study in Southern China.

Ye Q(1), Wu Y(1), Liu X(2), Wu J(3), Wu P(3), Wu W(4).

Author information:
(1)South China Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Ecology and 
Environment, Guangzhou 510655, China; Guangdong Engineering & Technology 
Research Center for System Control of Livestock and Poultry Breeding Pollution, 
Guangzhou 510655, China.
(2)South China Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Ecology and 
Environment, Guangzhou 510655, China; Guangdong Engineering & Technology 
Research Center for System Control of Livestock and Poultry Breeding Pollution, 
Guangzhou 510655, China. Electronic address: liuxucheng@scies.org.
(3)School of Environment and Energy, South China University of Technology, 
Guangzhou 510006, China.
(4)South China Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Ecology and 
Environment, Guangzhou 510655, China; Guangdong Engineering & Technology 
Research Center for System Control of Livestock and Poultry Breeding Pollution, 
Guangzhou 510655, China. Electronic address: wuwencheng@scies.org.

To investigate the impact of various farmland use types on the spatial 
distribution of microplastics (MPs) and their correlation with microbial 
communities, 78 soil samples from distinct farmland use types (orchard, paddy 
field, and vegetable field) in Southern China were examined. Results revealed 
that the abundance of MPs ranged from 528 to 39,864 items/kg with a mean 
abundance of 10,562 items/kg, which were primarily 0-30 µm in size. A total of 
32 polymer types were identified, with the main polymer being polyethylene 
terephthalate (PET, 28.8 %), followed by polyvinyl chloride (PVC, 13.5 %) and 
fluororubber (FKM, 9.5 %). The abundance of MPs was highest in orchard field 
(8896 ± 5745 items/kg), followed by paddy field (4176 ± 2976 items/kg) and 
lastly vegetable field (2967 ± 3698 items/kg). Results of 16 S rRNA gene 
amplicon sequencing showed that the presence of MPs affected the bacterial 
distribution patterns. Compared with soil bacterial communities, the spatial 
dispersion and dissimilarity of plasticsphere communities were less variable. 
Notably, the predicted sequences related to xenobiotics biodegradation and 
metabolism became more abundant, thereby affecting the ecological function of 
soil. Overall, this study provides important data for further research on MP 
ecosystem risks associated with farmland use types.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136477
PMID: 39549399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Monit Assess. 2024 Nov 16;196(12):1203. doi:
10.1007/s10661-024-13380-w.

Assessment of the germination power and α-amylase activity in the soil 
rhizospheric compartment amended with olive mill waste waters.

Abdennbi S(1)(2), Trabelsi L(1), Ben Ahmed G(1), Ayadi M(1), Maktouf S(1), 
Gargouri K(1), Chaieb M(2), Mekki A(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sustainability of Olive Growing and Arboriculture in Semi-Arid 
and Arid Regions, Olive Tree Institute, Sfax, Tunisia.
(2)Laboratory of Plant Biodiversity and Dynamics of Ecosystems in Arid 
Environment, Faculty of Sciences of Sfax, Sfax, Tunisia.
(3)Laboratory of Sustainability of Olive Growing and Arboriculture in Semi-Arid 
and Arid Regions, Olive Tree Institute, Sfax, Tunisia. a_mekki_cbs@yahoo.fr.
(4)Laboratory of Environmental Bioprocesses, Center of Biotechnology of Sfax, 
AUF (PER-LBP), BP: 1177, 3018, Sfax, Tunisia. a_mekki_cbs@yahoo.fr.

Olive mill wastewater (OMWW) was used in ferti-irrigation due to its high water 
content, as well as its organic and mineral richness. However, this by-product 
also contains elevated levels of polyphenols, which may pose phytotoxic risks to 
soil microbiota and plants over time. To address this concern, we conducted a 
thorough examination of the phenolic composition of OMWW and the phenolic 
content of amended soils using HPLC analysis. Additionally, we assessed the 
residual phytotoxicity of OMWW across various soil rhizospheric layers (0-30 cm, 
30-60 cm, and 60-90 cm). Standard germination tests were performed using soil 
extracts with sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) seeds. 
We also measured α-amylase activities in the germinated seeds for both species, 
comparing them to raw OMWW and control soil extracts. HPLC analysis revealed 
that tyrosol, ferulic acid, and hydroxytyrosol were the predominant phenolic 
compounds in crude OMWW, while no detectable compounds were found in the soil 
extracts. Germination tests indicated minimal toxicity in the topsoil amended 
with OMWW, with a noticeable reduction in residual phytotoxicity at greater 
depths. These results aligned with the α-amylase activity assessments, which 
demonstrated significantly higher enzyme activity in the deeper soil layers 
(30-60 cm and 60-90 cm), with no substantial differences compared to control 
extracts.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-024-13380-w
PMID: 39547983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations Ethics approval All authors have 
read, understood, and have complied as applicable with the statement on “Ethical 
responsibilities of Authors” as found in the Instructions for Authors. Competing 
interests The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Parasitology. 2024 Nov 15:1-11. doi: 10.1017/S0031182024000787. Online ahead
of  print.

Host genotype and infection status interact to shape microbiomes in Daphnia 
magna.

Rajarajan A(1)(2), Decaestecker E(3), Bulteel L(3), Walser JC(4), Spaak P(1), 
Wolinska J(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aquatic Ecology, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and 
Technology (Eawag) Dübendorf, Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Dept. of Evolutionary and Integrative Ecology, Leibniz Institute for 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Dept. of Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity Conservation, University of 
Leuven, Campus-Kulak, Kortrijk, Belgium.
(4)Genetic Diversity Centre, Dept. of Environmental Systems Science, ETH Zürich, 
Zürich, Switzerland.
(5)Dept. of Biology, Chemistry and Pharmacy, Freie Universität (FU) Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.

Host–bacterial communities (microbiomes) are influenced by a wide range of 
factors including host genotype and parasite exposure. However, few studies 
disentangle temporal and host-genotype-specific variation in microbiome response 
to infection across several host tissues. We experimentally exposed the 
freshwater crustacean Daphnia magna to its fungal parasite Metschnikowia 
bicuspidata and characterized changes in host–bacterial communities associated 
with the parasite's development within the host. We used 16S rRNA gene 
sequencing to assess bacterial communities of the host (a) 24 h (‘initial 
parasite exposure’) and (b) 10 days (‘successful infection’) after exposure to a 
standard dose of M. bicuspidata spores, in host guts, body tissue (excluding 
guts) and whole individuals. We also investigated whether bacterial community 
responses to parasite exposure varied by host genotype.Parasite exposure did not 
immediately alter host gut bacterial communities, but drove 
host-genotype-specific changes in the bacterial community composition of whole 
individuals. We validated that these changes were not driven by shifts in 
bacterial communities of the culturing medium, due to the addition of the 
parasite spore solution. Successful infection (i.e. the proliferation of M. 
bicuspidata spores in the host body) reduced alpha diversity and shifted 
abundance of dominant bacterial orders in the gut. Moreover, it induced a 
host-genotype-specific changes in body bacterial community composition. Overall, 
bacterial community responses to parasite exposure and subsequent infection are 
complex: they occur in a host-genotype-dependent manner, differentially at 
distinct timepoints after parasite exposure, and in specific host tissue.

DOI: 10.1017/S0031182024000787
PMID: 39542865

1. Neuroscience. 2024 Nov 13;563:148-166. doi:
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.020.  Online ahead of print.

Dietary interventions in mitigating the impact of environmental pollutants on 
Alzheimer's disease - A review.

Khandayataray P(1), Murthy MK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Academy of Management and Information 
Technology, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 752057, India.
(2)Department of Allied Health Sciences, Chitkara School of Health Sciences, 
Chitkara University, Rajpura, Punjab 140401, India. Electronic address: 
krishnameesala6@gmail.com.

Numerous studies linking environmental pollutants to oxidative stress, 
inflammation, and neurotoxicity have assigned pollutants to several 
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Heavy metals, 
pesticides, air pollutants, and endocrine disruptor chemicals have been shown to 
play important roles in AD development, with some traditional functions in 
amyloid-β formation, tau kinase action, and neuronal degeneration. However, 
pharmacological management and supplementation have resulted in limited 
improvement. This raises the interesting possibility that activities usually 
considered preventive, including diet, exercise, or mental activity, might be 
more similar to treatment or therapy for AD. This review focuses on the effects 
of diet on the effects of environmental pollutants on AD. One of the primary 
issues addressed in this review is a group of specific diets, including the 
Mediterranean diet (MeDi), Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH), and 
Mediterranean-DASH intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay (MIND), which 
prevent exposure to these toxins. Such diets have been proven to decrease 
oxidative stress and inflammation, which are unfavorable for neuronal growth. 
Furthermore, they contribute to positive changes in the composition of the human 
gut microbiota and thus encourage interactions in the Gut-Brain Axis, reducing 
inflammation caused by pollutants. This review emphasizes a multi-professional 
approach with reference to nutritional activities that would lower the 
neurotoxic load in populations with a high level of exposure to pollutants. 
Future studies focusing on diet and environment association plans may help 
identify preventive measures aimed at enhancing current disease deceleration.

Copyright © 2024 International Brain Research Organization (IBRO). Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2024.11.020
PMID: 39542342

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sangyo Eiseigaku Zasshi. 2024 Nov 12. doi: 10.1539/sangyoeisei.2024-009-A. 
Online ahead of print.

[Allergy and immunotoxicology in preventive and clinical medicine from theory to 
practice: Environmental factors in Bronchial Asthma].

[Article in Japanese]

Hisada T(1)(2), Nishimura Y(1)(3), Dobashi K(1)(2)(4), Yoshida T(1)(5), Itoh 
T(1)(5), Morimoto Y(1)(6), Suganuma N(1)(7), Li Q(1)(8), Wada H(1)(9), Ueda 
A(1)(10), Kayama F(1)(11), Satoh K(1)(12), Satoh M(1)(13), Shibata E(1)(14), 
Takeshita T(1)(15), Yanagisawa H(1)(16), Tsunoda M(1)(17).

Author information:
(1)The committee members for Allergy and Immunotoxicology (AIT), Japan Society 
for Occupational Health (JSOH).
(2)Gunma University Graduate School of Health Sciences.
(3)Kawasaki Medical School.
(4)Jobu Hospital for Respiratory Diseases.
(5)Asahikawa Medical University.
(6)University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Japan. Institute of 
Industrial Ecological Sciences.
(7)Kochi Medical School.
(8)Nippon Medical School.
(9)Juntendo University Graduate School of Medicine.
(10)NPO Asian Health Promotion Network Center.
(11)Jichi Medical University.
(12)University of Fukui.
(13)University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Japan.
(14)Yokkaichi Nursing and Medical Care University.
(15)Wakayama Medical University.
(16)The Jikei University School of Medicine.
(17)National Defense Medical College.

BACKGROUND: According to the gene-environment interactions (GEi) concept, the 
mechanism of health impairment can be explained by genetic factors, 
environmental factors, or their interaction. Physical and mental health effects 
resulting from environmental exposure may be classified either as toxicity, 
immune response, and allergic reaction. Moreover, despite the already 
established therapeutic approaches to bronchial asthma and decreasing mortality 
due to bronchial asthma, patients with difficult and severe asthma are 
increasing in number. This review outlines recent topics in the field of 
allergies, focusing on asthma.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Living environment-derived pollutants and their 
involvement in the pathogenesis of asthma and its exacerbation, referred to here 
as an exposome concept, comprises the three domains of internal, specific 
external, and general external. Living environment-derived pollutants include 
exposure to pollutants in workplaces, climate change, air pollution, 
microplastics, tobacco smoke, biodiversity change and loss, changing dietary 
habits, and the microbiome. These are associated with the modernization, 
urbanization, and globalization of human society. Although many novel compounds 
are currently available, their harmful health effects, such as allergy, are not 
thoroughly understood. Hence, the means to mitigate these are unknown. Dietary 
changes from a traditional diet rich in fish to a Western-style diet are 
considered critical environmental factors and therefore, associated with an 
increased prevalence of allergies. Cytokines, including TSLP, IL-25, and IL-33, 
released from the airway epithelium in response to various triggers (exposure to 
diverse environmental factors) are known as alarmins. Anti-alarmin antibodies 
are a promising therapeutic approach against severe and difficult allergic 
disorders. Collaboration between hospitals and clinics and occupational and 
clinical medicine is imperative for treating and managing severe asthma. In 
addition to avoiding environmental exposure, understanding the pathogenesis and 
exacerbation of asthma is essential for future research in the field of allergy 
and immunotoxicology.

DOI: 10.1539/sangyoeisei.2024-009-A
PMID: 39537181

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Nov 12;364(Pt 2):125306. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125306.  Online ahead of print.

Temporal dynamic of soil microbial communities and antibiotic resistance markers 
exposed to increasing concentrations of sulfamethoxazole.

Della-Negra O(1), Camotti Bastos M(1), Barbieri MV(2), Bru-Adan V(3), 
Santa-Catalina G(3), Ait-Mouheb N(4), Chiron S(2), Patureau D(5).

Author information:
(1)INRAE, University of Montpellier, LBE, Av. des Étangs, 11100, Narbonne, 
France; UMR HydroSciences Montpellier, University of Montpellier, IRD, CNRS, 15 
Av. Charles Flahault, 34093, Montpellier, cedex 5, France.
(2)UMR HydroSciences Montpellier, University of Montpellier, IRD, CNRS, 15 Av. 
Charles Flahault, 34093, Montpellier, cedex 5, France.
(3)INRAE, University of Montpellier, LBE, Av. des Étangs, 11100, Narbonne, 
France.
(4)INRAE, University of Montpellier, UMR GEAU, 361 rue Jean-François Breton, 
34196, Montpellier, France.
(5)INRAE, University of Montpellier, LBE, Av. des Étangs, 11100, Narbonne, 
France. Electronic address: dominique.patureau@inrae.fr.

The reuse of treated wastewater (TWW) for irrigation is widely applied to 
alleviate pressure on freshwater resources. However, TWW contains antibiotics 
that once in soils, can exert selective pressure, promoting the emergence and 
spread of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in the environment. Current 
environmental risk assessments for antibiotic residues rely on indicators such 
as Predicted No Effect Concentrations (PNECs), usually determined in liquid 
media. These PNECs aim to predict antibiotic concentrations that may promote 
resistance in the environment. Given the complexity of soil matrices, few 
studies have established PNEC values for soil, which likely differ significantly 
from aquatic environments. To address this gap, we developed a simplified 
experimental model using soil microcosms irrigated with TWW and the antibiotic 
sulfamethoxazole (SMX) to estimate threshold concentrations favouring resistance 
transfer or/and emergence within the soil microbiome. We identified SMX 
concentrations between 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kgdry soil that likely increased the 
abundance of sulfonamide resistance genes in soil. A time window of 1-7 days 
post-exposure showed a temporary rise in sul1 and intl1 gene abundance (over 1 
log/soil 16S rDNA), the appearance of SMX transformation products, and an 
increase in some Rhodocyclaceae. After 1.5 months of incubation and complete SMX 
transformation, the relative abundance of sul1 and intl1 remained about 0.5 log 
higher than in SMX-free controls and soils with SMX levels below 0.1 mg/kg dry 
soil. A persistent transformation product, 4-N-glucuronide-SMX, was also 
observed. Here, the estimated PNEC for SMX in soil, between 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg, 
exceeds typical SMX concentrations found in soils exposed to TWW. This may 
suggest low impact on resistance selection for this compound in the context of 
TWW exposure. However further studies on other soils, water, and antibiotics 
need to be conducted to expand our knowledge on soil PNECs.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125306
PMID: 39537085

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. EBioMedicine. 2024 Nov 12;110:105443. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105443. Online
 ahead of print.

Exposure to air pollution increases susceptibility to ulcerative colitis through 
epigenetic alterations in CXCR2 and MHC class III region.

Chen J(1), Zhang H(2), Fu T(3), Zhao J(2), Nowak JK(4), Kalla R(5), Wellens 
J(6), Yuan S(7), Noble A(8), Ventham NT(5), Dunlop MG(9), Halfvarson J(10), Mao 
R(11), Theodoratou E(12), Satsangi J(13), Li X(14).

Author information:
(1)The Second Affiliated Hospital and School of Public Health, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Department of 
Gastroenterology, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.
(2)The Second Affiliated Hospital and School of Public Health, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)The Second Affiliated Hospital and School of Public Health, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China; Department of 
Gastroenterology, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China; Department of Gastroenterology, Affiliated Hangzhou First 
People's Hospital, Westlake University Medical College, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Metabolic Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, 60572, Poznan, Poland.
(5)Medical Research Council Centre for Inflammation Research, Queens Medical 
Research Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(6)KU Leuven Department of Chronic Diseases and Metabolism, Translational 
Research Center for Gastrointestinal Disorders (TARGID), Leuven, Belgium; 
Translational Gastro-Intestinal Unit, Nuffield Department of Medicine, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(7)Unit of Cardiovascular and Nutritional Epidemiology, Institute of 
Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(8)Translational Gastro-Intestinal Unit, Nuffield Department of Medicine, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(9)Cancer Research UK Edinburgh Centre, Medical Research Council Institute of 
Genetics and Cancer, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine and Health, Örebro 
University, Örebro, Sweden.
(11)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(12)Cancer Research UK Edinburgh Centre, Medical Research Council Institute of 
Genetics and Cancer, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Centre for Global 
Health Research, Usher Institute, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom. Electronic address: e.theodoratou@ed.ac.uk.
(13)Translational Gastro-Intestinal Unit, Nuffield Department of Medicine, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK. Electronic address: jack.satsangi@ndm.ox.ac.uk.
(14)The Second Affiliated Hospital and School of Public Health, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. Electronic address: 
xueli157@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to confirm the associations of air pollution with 
ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD); to explore interactions with 
genetics and lifestyle; and to characterize potential epigenetic mechanisms.
METHODS: We identified over 450,000 individuals from the UK Biobank and 
investigated the relationship between air pollution and incident inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBD). Cox regression was utilized to calculate hazard ratios 
(HRs), while also exploring potential interactions with genetics and lifestyle 
factors. Additionally, we conducted epigenetic Mendelian randomization (MR) 
analyses to examine the association between air pollution-related DNA 
methylation and UC. Finally, our findings were validated through genome-wide DNA 
methylation analysis of UC, as well as co-localization and gene expression 
analyses.
FINDINGS: Higher exposures to NOx (HR = 1.20, 95% CI 1.05-1.38), NO2 (HR = 1.19, 
95% CI = 1.03-1.36), PM2.5 (HR = 1.19, 95% CI = 1.05-1.36) and combined air 
pollution score (HR = 1.26, 95% CI = 1.11-1.45) were associated with incident UC 
but not CD. Interactions with genetic risk score and lifestyle were observed. In 
MR analysis, we found five and 22 methylated CpG sites related to PM2.5 and NO2 
exposure to be significantly associated with UC. DNA methylation alterations at 
CXCR2 and sites within the MHC class III region, were validated in genome-wide 
DNA methylation analysis, co-localization analysis and analysis of colonic 
tissue.
INTERPRETATION: We report a potential causal association between air pollution 
and UC, modified by lifestyle and genetic influences. Biological pathways 
implicated include epigenetic alterations in key genetic loci, including CXCR2 
and susceptible loci within MHC class III region.
FUNDING: Xue Li was supported by the Natural Science Fund for Distinguished 
Young Scholars of Zhejiang Province (LR22H260001) and the National Nature 
Science Foundation of China (No. 82204019). ET was supported by the CRUK Career 
Development Fellowship (C31250/A22804) and the Research Foundation Flanders 
(FWO). JW was supported by Belgium by a PhD Fellowship strategic basic research 
(SB) grant (1S06023N). JKN was supported by the National Science Center, Poland 
(No. 2020/39/D/NZ5/02720). The IBD Character was supported by the European 
Union's Seventh Framework Programme [FP7] grant IBD Character (No. 2858546).

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2024.105443
PMCID: PMC11605448
PMID: 39536393

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests JKN reports consulting 
for Procter & Gamble and grant support from the Biocodex Microbiota Foundation, 
outside of the submitted work. All the remaining authors declare no potential or 
actual conflict of interest to the work presented in this paper.

1. Environ Sci Technol. 2024 Nov 26;58(47):20894-20905. doi: 
10.1021/acs.est.4c10434. Epub 2024 Nov 13.

Biotransformation of Tetrabromobisphenol A and Its Analogs by Selected Gut 
Bacteria Strains: Implications for Human Health.

Lv M(1)(2), Liu Y(1), Wang M(1), Wang Y(1)(2), Xiang T(1), Guo Y(1)(3), Song 
XC(1)(2), Yan Y(1), Gao J(1), Shi C(1)(4), Pan W(1), Liu A(5), Yao L(1), Yan 
X(6), Chen L(7), Liu R(8), Shi J(1)(9), Yan B(10), Cai Z(11), Qu G(1)(2), Jiang 
G(12)(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Research 
Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100085, China.
(2)School of Environment, Hangzhou Institute for Advanced Study, University of 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Hangzhou 310024, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Environment Remediation and Ecological Health, Ministry of 
Education, College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310058, China.
(4)College of Ecology and Environment, Beijing Technology and Business 
University, Beijing 100048, China.
(5)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao 
266071, China.
(6)College of Animal Science, South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou 
510642, China.
(7)Academy of Medical Engineering and Translational Medicine, Medical College, 
Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China.
(8)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Qingdao 
266237, China.
(9)School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences, Wuhan 
430074, China.
(10)Institute of Environmental Research at Greater Bay Area, Key Laboratory for 
Water Quality and Conservation of the Pearl River Delta, Ministry of Education, 
Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, China.
(11)State Key Laboratory of Environmental and Biological Analysis, Department of 
Chemistry, Hong Kong Baptist University, Kowloon 999077, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(12)Department of Chemistry, College of Sciences, Northeastern University, 
Shenyang 110819, China.

Knowledge of the biotransformation of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) and its 
related contaminants by human gut microbiota (GM) remains unexplored. Here, 
TBBPA and its four analogs were incubated with mixed GM strains, and nine 
rhamnosylated or debrominated transformation products (TPs) were discovered. 
Remarkably, rhamnosylation was identified as a common and unique microbial 
transformation pathway for these contaminants, and six of the seven 
rhamnosylated TPs were reported for the first time. Additionally, a kinetic 
transformation study also showed a rapid and strong bioaccumulation of TBBPA and 
TPs by Clostridium manihotivorum. Genomic analysis and phylogenetic studies 
identified C1.1_02053 as the gene encoding the C. manihotivorum working 
rhamnosyltransferase (CmRT), showing elevated gene expression with higher TBBPA 
exposure. Molecular docking identified five critical amino acid residues in CmRT 
that catalyze TBBPA rhamnosylation, and molecular dynamics simulations further 
confirmed the stability of the CmRT-TBBPA complex. Dynamic metabolomics analysis 
showed microbial growth-dependent disturbing effects in C. manihotivorum upon 
TBBPA exposure, and key metabolic pathways related to rhamnosyltransferase 
showed changes closely related to the transformation process. These findings 
provide insights into the unique transformation of environmental contaminants by 
the GM and highlight the disturbing effects of exogenous chemicals on the GM, as 
well as the potential impacts on overall human health.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.est.4c10434
PMID: 39536133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136416. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136416.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

Copper oxide nanoparticles induce non-alcoholic fatty liver disease by 
disrupting bile acid homeostasis and perturbing the intestinal microbial 
homeostasis.

Jiang M(1), Tao X(2), Pang Y(1), Qin Z(1), Song E(3), Song Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Luminescence Analysis and Molecular Sensing, Ministry of 
Education, College of Food Science, Southwest University, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Luminescence Analysis and Molecular Sensing, Ministry of 
Education, College of Food Science, Southwest University, China; Joint 
International Research Laboratory of Animal Health and Animal Food Safety, 
College of Veterinary Medicine, Southwest University, China. Electronic address: 
taoxiaoqi@swu.edu.cn.
(3)Key Laboratory of Luminescence Analysis and Molecular Sensing, Ministry of 
Education, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Southwest University, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Environmental Chemistry and Ecotoxicology, Research 
Center for Eco-Environmental Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, China. 
Electronic address: yangsong@rcees.ac.cn.

The wide application of copper oxide nanoparticles (CuO NPs) in various fields 
such as medicine, food, agriculture, and animal husbandry can result in direct 
or indirect oral exposure of CuO NPs to the human body. Therefore, the research 
on the biosafety of CuO NPs is crucially important. However, previous research 
mainly concentrated on CuO NPs-induced oxidative stress, rather than the 
dysregulation of metabolic homeostasis. Our current finding indicates that CuO 
NPs can enter the systemic circulation and accumulate in the liver by being 
adopted by the colon and disrupting the intestinal barrier. Subsequently, CuO 
NPs can impair bile acid (BA) homeostasis through increased reabsorption of bile 
acids (BAs), ultimately leading to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). 
Additionally, the direct stimulation from CuO NPs, damage to the gut barrier, 
and disruption of BA homeostasis can also disrupt microbial homeostasis in the 
intestines, including alterations in the composition and biological functions of 
gut microbiota, thereby triggering NAFLD. These findings deepen our 
understanding of the biosafety of CuO NPs and provide evidence for their role in 
disrupting physiological homeostasis.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136416
PMID: 39531819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Int. 2024 Nov;193:109130. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109130. Epub 2024
 Nov 5.

Environmental endocrine disrupting chemical-DEHP exposure-provoked biotoxicity 
about microbiota-gut-mammary axis in lactating mice via multi-omics 
technologies.

Xu X(1), He Y(1), Cheng Z(1), Zhang H(1), Chu Y(1), Wang Z(1), An X(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi 712100, PR China.
(2)College of Animal Science and Technology, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi 712100, PR China. Electronic address: anxiaopengdky@163.com.

Plastics, pervasive in humans and nature, often contain Di (2-ethylhexyl) 
phthalate (DEHP) that enhance plastic's elasticity. However, DEHP is an 
environmental endocrine disruptor, affecting organisms upon exposure. 
Understanding mammary gland development in lactating females is crucial for 
offspring nourishment and dairy production. Employing multi-omics technology, 
this study aimed to uncover DEHP's impact on the microbial-gut-mammary axis. 
Forty mice were exposed to varying DEHP doses for 18 d. We performed 16S 
sequencing, metabolomics, mammary tissue observation, and gene expression 
profiling. Results revealed DEHP's influence on microbial diversity, with 
increased Lactobacillus abundance and reduced Proteobacteria, alongside colonic 
inflammation. Elevated GMP and adenosine 5'-monophosphate levels in the 
bloodstream were noted, while ascorbic acid, glycitein, and others decreased. 
MEHP, a DEHP metabolite, damaged mammary tissues, inhibiting ERK1/2 
phosphorylation, triggering apoptosis and ferroptosis. These findings unveil 
potential therapeutic targets for DEHP-induced chronic toxicity in humans and 
animals, aiding dairy livestock health and human well-being. This study 
underscores the importance of understanding the adverse effects of DEHP exposure 
on mammalian systems.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109130
PMID: 39522489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 15;287:117278. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117278. Epub 2024 Nov 9.

Maternal diesel particle exposure alters gut microbiota and induces lung injury 
in rat offspring.

Chen CM(1), Yang YSH(2), Chou HC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taipei Medical University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; 
Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: cmchen@tmu.edu.tw.
(2)Joint Biobank, Office of Human Research, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, School of Medicine, College of 
Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.

Maternal air pollutant exposure inhibits fetal lung development. Diesel exhaust 
particles (DEP) are one of the most substantial contributors to particulate 
matter pollution. The effects of maternal DEP exposure on gut microbiota in 
mothers and offspring and fetal lung development remain unclear. In this study, 
time-dated pregnant Sprague Dawley rats received intranasal administration of 
100 μL phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) or DEP (250 μg) in 100 μL PBS from 
gestational days 16-21. The dams were permitted to deliver vaginally at term. On 
postnatal days 0 and 7, gut microbiota was sampled from the lower 
gastrointestinal tract. The right lung and terminal ileum were harvested for 
histological, cytokine, and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) analyses. On 
postnatal day 0, the dams exposed to DEP and rat offspring with maternal DEP 
exposure exhibited macrophages that phagocytized diesel particles and increased 
numbers of macrophages in the alveolar parenchyma. On postnatal days 0 and 7, 
the offspring of DEP-exposed dams exhibited significantly lower intestinal tight 
junction protein expression, higher lung 8-OHdG and cytokine levels, and 
substantial lung injury compared with the offspring of the control dams. No 
significant differences were observed in the microbiota composition and 
diversity between the control and DEP-exposed dams. Maternal DEP exposure 
altered the gut microbiota composition and diversity on postnatal days 0 and 7, 
with more significant effects observed in the offspring on postnatal day 7. 
Regarding the mechanism, lung injury in offspring may have been linked to 
altered gut microbiota communities and dysregulated metabolic pathways caused by 
maternal DEP exposure.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117278
PMID: 39522267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136401. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136401.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

Mitigating effect of Bifidobacterium longum CCFM1077 on nonylphenol toxicity: An 
integrative in vitro and in vivo analysis.

Ye Z(1), Yu L(1), Lu D(1), Zhang Q(1), Narbad A(2), Chen W(3), Zhai Q(1), Tian 
F(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Resources, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(2)Gut Health and Microbiome Institute Strategic Programme, Quadram Institute 
Bioscience, Norwich, UK; International Joint Research Laboratory for 
Pharmabiotics & Antibiotic Resistance, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 
214122, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Resources, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; National Engineering Research Center 
for Functional Food, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Resources, Jiangnan University, 
Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China; School of Food Science and Technology, Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, Jiangsu 214122, China. Electronic address: 
fwtian@jiangnan.edu.cn.

Nonylphenol (NP), an endocrine-disrupting compound (EDC) with accumulative 
properties, poses significant risks to human health and the environment. The 
pivotal role of probiotics in mitigating EDC toxicity has garnered increasing 
attention. In this study, we assessed the protective effects of Bifidobacterium 
longum CCFM1077, a probiotic with outstanding in vitro NP-binding ability, 
against NP-induced toxicity in rats. This analysis revealed that B. longum 
CCFM1077 effectively promoted the NP excretion and enhanced intestinal barrier 
integrity. Interestingly, B. longum CCFM1077, by modulating the structure and 
the function of gut microbiota, increased the abundance of Turicibacter, 
significantly elevated the level of butyric acid, and upregulated 
antioxidant-related metabolic pathways, thereby alleviating brain inflammation 
and ultimately improving behavioral disorders. This study elucidated a strategy 
to alleviate NP toxicity and lays a theoretical foundation for the development 
of novel intestinal protection strategies. It supports environmental 
sustainability by offering a strategy to combat NP bioaccumulation, aligning 
with global initiatives to minimize the environmental impact of industrial 
pollutants.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136401
PMID: 39522148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Nutrients. 2024 Oct 31;16(21):3757. doi: 10.3390/nu16213757.

Mitigating Dietary Bisphenol Exposure Through the Gut Microbiota: The Role of 
Next-Generation Probiotics in Bacterial Detoxification.

Emanowicz P(1), Średnicka P(1), Wójcicki M(1), Roszko M(2), Juszczuk-Kubiak 
E(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Molecular Engineering, Department of 
Microbiology, Prof. Wacław Dąbrowski Institute of Agricultural and Food 
Biotechnology-State Research Institute, Rakowiecka 36 Street, 02-532 Warsaw, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Food Safety and Chemical Analysis, Prof. Wacław Dąbrowski 
Institute of Agricultural and Food Biotechnology-State Research Institute, 
Rakowiecka 36 Street, 02-532 Warsaw, Poland.

Bisphenols, such as bisphenol A and its analogs, which include bisphenol S, 
bisphenol F, bisphenol AF, and tetramethyl bisphenol F, are chemical 
contaminants commonly found in food that raise serious health concerns. These 
xenobiotics can potentially have harmful effects on human health. The gut 
microbiota plays a crucial role in metabolizing and neutralizing these 
substances, which is essential for their detoxification and elimination. 
Probiotic supplementation has been studied for its ability to modulate the gut 
microbiota's composition and function, enhancing detoxification processes. 
Next-Generation Probiotics (NGPs) may exhibit better properties than traditional 
strains and are designed for targeted action on specific conditions, such as 
obesity. By modulating inflammatory responses and reducing the secretion of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, they can significantly improve host health. Research 
on NGPs' ability to neutralize obesogenic bisphenols remains limited, but their 
potential makes this a promising area for future exploration. This review aims 
to understand the mechanisms of the chemical transformation of bisphenol through 
its interactions with the gut microbiota and the role of probiotics, 
particularly NGPs, in these processes. Understanding the interplay between 
bisphenols, gut microbiota, and NGPs may pave the way for strategies to 
counteract the negative health effects associated with daily and chronic 
exposure to bisphenols, which is crucial for food safety and consumer health 
protection.

DOI: 10.3390/nu16213757
PMCID: PMC11547510
PMID: 39519589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this manuscript.

1. BMC Microbiol. 2024 Nov 8;24(1):463. doi: 10.1186/s12866-024-03620-x.

Screening of biomarkers in acute radiation enteritis based on microbiome and 
clustering methods.

Ma C(1), Xu X(1), Qin S(1), Zhou J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215006, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215006, China. zhoujuyingsy@163.com.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Radiation Medicine and Protection, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215123, China. zhoujuyingsy@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Radiation enteritis (RE) is a common complication of radiotherapy 
for abdominal and pelvic tumors, adversely affecting treatment outcomes and 
patients' quality of life. Gut microbiome alterations may contribute to RE 
development, but the underlying pathogenic factors are not fully understood. 
This study aimed to characterize the intestinal microbial changes associated 
with RE and severe acute radiation enteritis (SARE) and to identify predictive 
biomarkers.
METHODS: We enrolled 50 cervical cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy and 15 
healthy women (controls). Stool samples were collected at the baseline and 
during weeks 2, 4, and 6 of radiotherapy, and then analyzed using 16 S rDNA 
sequencing and bioinformatics.
RESULTS: Although the Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes (B/F) ratio was higher in 
patients with RE or SARE, it alone could not predict these conditions. Three 
enterotypes were identified based on dominant genera: Blautia (enterotype 1), 
Escherichia-Shigella (enterotype 2), and Faecalibacterium (enterotype 3). A 
decrease in Blautia and an increase in Escherichia-Shigella and Faecalibacterium 
were correlated with RE and SARE. Univariate logistic regression revealed that 
the Faecalibacterium enterotype at the baseline was associated with a 4.4-fold 
higher risk of developing SARE (odds ratio 5.400; P = 0.017). The 
Escherichia-Shigella enterotype was also linked to increased SARE incidence.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that while single bacterial genera or the B/F 
ratio are insufficient predictors, enterotype classification may serve as a 
potential biomarker for predicting SARE in patients undergoing radiotherapy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-024-03620-x
PMCID: PMC11545530
PMID: 39516773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Environ Int. 2024 Nov;193:109133. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109133. Epub 2024
 Nov 6.

Interaction between young fecal transplantation and perfluorobutanesulfonate 
endocrine disrupting toxicity in aged recipients: An estrobolome perspective.

Sun B(1), Hu C(2), Li J(1), Yang Z(1), Chen L(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, China; 
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Institute of 
Technology, Wuhan 430072, China.
(3)Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, China. 
Electronic address: lchenam@ihb.ac.cn.

Transplanting young feces into the aged was found to effectively counteract the 
endocrine disrupting effects of perfluorobutanesulfonate (PFBS) pollutant, 
showing promise in the maintenance of healthy aging. However, the interactive 
mechanisms between young fecal transplantation and PFBS endocrine disruption 
during aging remain unclear. In this follow-up study, aged zebrafish were 
administered young donor feces and then exposed to environmentally relevant 
concentrations of PFBS (0 and 100 μg/L). Alterations in the holistic estrobolome 
along gut-liver axis were investigated. The results showed that PFBS singular 
exposure significantly increased blood estradiol concentration in the aged, 
inducing an estrogenic activity. Concentrations of other estrogen forms, 
including estrone and estriol, were also disrupted by PFBS. Interestingly, young 
fecal transplant effectively mitigated the estrogenic toxicity of PFBS and 
largely restored estrogen equilibrium. After PFBS exposure, the transcriptions 
of estrogen metabolic genes were consistently upregulated in aged livers, 
causing the accumulation of 2-methoxyestradiol-3-methylether metabolite. In 
contrast, aged livers coexposed to young fecal transplant and PFBS enhanced the 
glucuronidation process, successfully facilitating the elimination and 
detoxification of estrogen metabolites. In aged gut, PFBS exposure inhibited 
β-glucuronidase enzyme activity, implying the suppression of estrogen 
deconjugation and recycle. However, in the combined group, β-glucuronidase 
activity was significantly stimulated, thus reestablishing estrobolome dynamics. 
Overall, current findings provide mechanistic insights into the antagonistic 
interaction between young fecal transplant and PFBS on reproductive 
endocrinology. Gut microbiota manipulation appears appealing to maintain healthy 
aging progression albeit the interruption of environmental xenobiotics.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109133
PMID: 39515036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Biotech Histochem. 2024 Nov 8:1-12. doi: 10.1080/10520295.2024.2426049. Online
 ahead of print.

Grape seed oil attenuates sodium arsenite-induced gastric, hepatic and colonic 
damage in Wistar rats.

Akinrinde AS(1), Oyewole SO(1), Adekanmbi AO(2).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal and Environmental Toxicology Laboratory, Department of 
Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.
(2)Environmental Microbiology and Biotechnology Laboratory, Department of 
Microbiology, Faculty of Science, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.

Arsenic exposure is associated with numerous morbidities due to dysfunction of 
various organ systems including the gastrointestinal tract. We investigated the 
protective effect of grape seed oil (GSO) against sodium arsenite 
(NaAsO2)-induced gastric, hepatic and colonic injuries in rats. Twenty-four male 
Wistar rats were divided into four groups of six as follows: Group A (control) 
received saline; group B received NaAsO2 (2.5 mg/kg) orally for 7 days; group C 
were treated concurrently with NaAsO2 and GSO (2 ml/kg), while group D received 
only GSO. Administration of NaAsO2 induced significant (p < 0.05) increases in 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST); increased 
periodic acid Schiff (PAS) staining for mucus and increased goblet cell numbers 
in the stomach and colon; inflammatory cell infiltration and vascular congestion 
and alterations in the fecal bacterial flora. GSO supplementation generally 
promoted a reversal of changes induced by NaAsO2 towards control levels. 
Additionally, there was increased immunohistochemically detected expression of 
colonic B-cell lymphoma-1 (Bcl-2) and cytokeratins AE1/AE3, but reduced 
expression of mucin 1 (MUC1) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in NaAsO2 + GSO 
and GSO treated rats when compared with the NaAsO2 group. These results suggest 
that GSO promoted anti-inflammatory processes in the liver, stomach and colon, 
as well as opposing apoptosis in the colon, resulting in significant attenuation 
of damage to these tissues.

DOI: 10.1080/10520295.2024.2426049
PMID: 39514780

1. Environ Monit Assess. 2024 Nov 8;196(12):1182. doi:
10.1007/s10661-024-13292-9.

A combinational threat of micro- and nano-plastics (MNPs) as potential emerging 
vectors for per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) to human health.

Santhanam SD(1), Ramamurthy K(1), Priya PS(1), Sudhakaran G(2), Guru A(3), 
Arockiaraj J(4).

Author information:
(1)Toxicology and Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, Faculty 
of Science and Humanities, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, 
Kattankulatur, 603203, Chengalpattu District, Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Center for Global Health Research, Saveetha Medical College and Hospital, 
Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, 
India.
(3)Department of Cariology, Saveetha Dental College and Hospitals, SIMATS, 
Chennai, 600077, Tamil Nadu, India. ajayguru.sdc@saveetha.com.
(4)Toxicology and Pharmacology Laboratory, Department of Biotechnology, Faculty 
of Science and Humanities, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, 
Kattankulatur, 603203, Chengalpattu District, Tamil Nadu, India. 
jesuaroa@srmist.edu.in.

Micro- and nano-plastics (MNPs) and per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) 
are prevalent in ecosystems due to their exceptional properties and widespread 
use, profoundly affecting both human health and ecosystem. Upon entering the 
environment, MNPs and PFAS undergo various transformations, such as weathering, 
transport, and accumulation, potentially altering their characteristics and 
structural dynamics. Their interactions, governed by factors like hydrogen 
bonding, hydrophobic interactions, Van der Waals forces, electrostatic 
attractions, and environmental conditions, can amplify or mitigate their 
toxicity toward human health within ecological conditions. Several studies 
demonstrate the in vivo effects of PFAS and MNPs, encompassing growth and 
reproductive impairments, oxidative stress, neurotoxicity, apoptosis, DNA 
damage, genotoxicity, immunological responses, behavioral changes, modifications 
in gut microbiota, and histopathological alterations. Moreover, in vitro 
investigations highlight impacts on cellular uptake, affecting survival, 
proliferation, membrane integrity, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, and 
antioxidant responses. This review combines knowledge on the co-existence and 
adsorption of PFAS and MNPs in the environment, defining their combined in 
vivo and in vitro impacts. It provides evidence of potential human health 
implications. While significant research originates from China, Europe, and the 
USA, studies from other regions are limited. Only freshwater and marine 
organisms and their impacts are extensively studied in comparison to terrestrial 
organisms and humans. Nonetheless, detailed investigations are lacking regarding 
their fate, combined environmental exposure, mode of action, and implications in 
human health studies. Ongoing research is imperative to comprehensively 
understand environmental exposures and interaction mechanisms, addressing the 
need to elucidate these aspects thoroughly.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Switzerland 
AG.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-024-13292-9
PMID: 39514026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125249. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125249.  Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Environmental fate of microplastics and common polymer additives in 
non-biodegradable plastic mulch applied agricultural soils.

Ramanayaka S(1), Zhang H(2), Semple KT(2).

Author information:
(1)Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YQ, UK. 
Electronic address: s.ramanayaka@lancaster.ac.uk.
(2)Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YQ, UK.

Numerous studies have been conducted to investigate the impact of microplastics 
on soil eco-system, yet little attention has been given to the specific effects 
of mulch microplastics and the leaching of plastic additives from mulch films. 
This review inspects the propensity of commonly used plastic additives in mulch 
films, such as Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), bisphenol A (BPA), and 
benzophenones (BPs), to migrate into soils and pose potential risks to soil 
biota. Further, we highlight the degradation of non-biodegradable plastic mulch 
films over time, which leads to an increase in the release of plastic additives 
and microplastics into agricultural soils. DEHP has been detected in high 
concentrations for example 25.2 mg/kg in agricultural soils, indicating a 
potential risk of uptake, translocation and accumulation in plants, ultimately 
altering soil physicochemical properties and affecting soil microflora and 
invertebrates. The review also explores how exposure to ultraviolet (UV) 
radiation and microbial activities accelerates the weathering of mulch films. 
Moreover, the resultant plastic additives and mulch microplastics can lead to 
genotoxicity and growth inhibition in earthworms (Eisenia fetida) and negatively 
impact the soil microbiome. Despite the significant implications, there has been 
a lack of comprehensive reviews comparing the effects of non-biodegradable mulch 
film additives on agricultural soil flora and fauna. Therefore, this review 
addresses the knowledge gaps providing a bibliometric analysis and 
eco-toxicological evaluation, discussing the challenges and future perspectives 
regarding mulch plastic additives and microplastics, thus offering a 
comprehensive understanding of their impact.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125249
PMID: 39510302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2024 Oct 29;74:103170. doi: 
10.1016/j.fsigen.2024.103170. Online ahead of print.

Environmental microbiota from substrate may interfere with microbiome-based 
identification of forensically relevant body fluids: A pilot study.

Zhang J(1), Yu D(1), Zhang L(1), Wang T(1), Yan J(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Forensic Medicine, Shanxi Medical University, Jinzhong, 
Shanxi 030600, China; Shanxi Key Laboratory of Forensic Medicine, Jinzhong, 
Shanxi 030600, China.
(2)School of Forensic Medicine, Shanxi Medical University, Jinzhong, 
Shanxi 030600, China; Shanxi Key Laboratory of Forensic Medicine, Jinzhong, 
Shanxi 030600, China. Electronic address: yanjw@sxmu.edu.cn.

The microbiome is a promising tool for identifying body fluids which can be 
deposited on various substrates at a crime scene. Body fluids collected from 
crime scenes are not entirely free from substrate microbes whose effects on the 
microbiome-based identification of body fluids are not well understood. In this 
study, five body fluids (peripheral blood, menstrual blood, nasal secretions, 
saliva, and semen) were deposited on sterile swabs, bedspreads, and floors under 
indoor exposure conditions for 7 days. The microbial communities in the samples 
were characterized using amplicon sequencing targeted V4 region of 16S rRNA 
gene. The results showed that the microbial communities of fresh samples 
deposited on sterile swabs clustered together according to the type of body 
fluid. The microbial composition of the body fluids deposited on the bedspread 
and floor is significant different from those deposited on sterile swabs. The 
microbial communities of mock body fluids were a mixture of microbes from pure 
body fluids and environmental microbes. FEAST analysis showed that the microbes 
of mock saliva samples were mainly from pure body fluids (51.53 % and 63.04 % on 
the bedspread and floor, respectively), but not from substrates (25.70 % and 
18.92 % on the bedspread and floor, respectively). Contrary results were 
observed in peripheral blood, mock nasal secretion, and semen samples. All 
samples were mainly clustered based on the substrate, but not on the type of 
body fluid in the PCoA visualization. PERMANOVA results showed that the 
substrate accounted for more of the variance (R2 = 0.211, P < 0.001) than the 
type of body fluid (R2 = 0.152, P < 0.001). MicroDecon was used to remove 
contamination by microbes from the substrate of mock body fluid samples. PCoA 
and PERMANOVA were performed using decontaminated data. The results showed that 
samples were no longer clustered based on the substrate, and the type of body 
fluid (R2 = 0.240, P < 0.001) accounted for more of the variance in the 
microbial communities of samples than the substrate (R2 = 0.108, P < 0.001). Our 
results suggest that environmental microbiota from substrates may interfere with 
the microbiome-based identification of forensically relevant body fluids. To 
some extent, decontamination could decrease the effects of the substrate on the 
microbial communities of the samples and enhance the ability to distinguish 
between the types of body fluids. This pilot study will be valuable in promoting 
the application of microbiome-based stain analysis in forensics.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2024.103170
PMID: 39509997

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The author(s) 
declare(s) that there is no conflict of interest.

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136420. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136420.
Epub  2024 Nov 5.

Response of Ceratophyllum demersum L. and its epiphytic biofilms to 6PPD and 
6PPD-Q exposure: Based on metabolomics and microbial community analysis.

Li X(1), Liu W(2), Ge Y(1), Shi R(1), Yin C(1), Liu J(1), Zhao Y(1), Wang Q(1), 
Wang J(1), Mo F(1), Zeb A(1), Yu M(1).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria, College 
of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai University, Tianjin 300350, 
China; Tianjin Engineering Research Center of Environmental Diagnosis and 
Contamination Remediation, Tianjin 300350, China.
(2)MOE Key Laboratory of Pollution Processes and Environmental Criteria, College 
of Environmental Science and Engineering, Nankai University, Tianjin 300350, 
China; Tianjin Engineering Research Center of Environmental Diagnosis and 
Contamination Remediation, Tianjin 300350, China. Electronic address: 
lwt@nankai.edu.cn.

The emerging contaminant N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine 
(6PPD) and its ozone conversion product 
N-(1,3-dimethylbutyl)-N'-phenyl-p-phenylenediamine quinone (6PPD-Q) pose a 
threat to aquatic ecosystems. Aquatic animals and plants exhibit vigorous 
responses at very low ambient concentrations. However, studies of submerged 
macrophytes, key producers in aquatic ecosystems, are limited and the full 
extent of their toxic effects and feedback mechanisms is unknown. To investigate 
the phytotoxicity of 6PPD and 6PPD-Q, we modeled plant responses to abiotic 
stress using Ceratophyllum demersum L. (C. demersum) as a representative 
submerged plant. Our findings indicate that 6PPD and 6PPD-Q disrupt 
physiological and biochemical processes in C. demersum, encompassing growth 
inhibition, reduction in photosynthetic pigments, induction of oxidative damage, 
and metabolic alterations. Moreover, unfavorable modifications to biofilms 
induced were also discernible supported by confocal laser scanning microscopy 
(CLSM) images and microbial community profiling. More importantly, we found a 
robust correlation between differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs) and 
dominant genera, and 6PPD and 6PPD-Q significantly altered their correlation. 
Overall, our results imply that even though C. demersum is a resilient submerged 
macrophyte, the toxic effects of 6PPD and 6PPD-Q cannot be disregarded.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136420
PMID: 39509872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Dev Psychobiol. 2024 Dec;66(8):e70004. doi: 10.1002/dev.70004.

The Relationship Between Prenatal, Perinatal, and Postnatal Factors and ADHD: 
The Role of Nutrition, Diet, and Stress.

Al-Gailani L(1), Al-Kaleel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Cyprus International University, Nicosia, Cyprus.

Attention-Deficit Hyperactive Disorder (ADHD) is a neurobehavioral syndrome 
affecting children aged 6-17 with symptoms manifesting before age 12. ADHD 
presents heterogeneously and is associated with various psychiatric disorders. 
The cause remains elusive, but genetic and environmental factors, brain region 
maturation delays, and neurotransmitter dysregulation are implicated. Effective 
treatment requires a multi-disciplinary approach, primarily involving 
pharmacological and behavioral intervention. Stimulants like methylphenidate and 
amphetamines are first-line medications, but non-stimulants may be considered 
for some patients. However, stimulants face challenges related to misuse, 
dependence, and long-term tolerability issues. The etiology of ADHD involved 
genetic predisposition, environmental influences, and prenatal, perinatal, and 
postnatal factors. Prenatal causes encompass maternal diet, alcohol consumption, 
viral infections, and stress. Postnatal factors include head trauma, meningitis, 
toxin, nutritional deficiencies, as well as iodine deficiency and 
hypothyroidism. The gut microbiome's role in ADHD is emerging, influencing 
neurodevelopment through microbiota-gut-brain axis. Understanding these diverse 
etiological factors is essential for comprehensive ADHD management.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/dev.70004
PMID: 39508433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

1. J Environ Manage. 2024 Dec;371:123126. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123126.
Epub  2024 Nov 4.

Immune defense adaptation of Strauchbufo raddei population in heavy metal 
polluted area: Insights from developmental and environmental perspectives.

Su R(1), Chen F(2), Zhang X(3), Qin Y(4), Zhang Y(5), Zhang W(6).

Author information:
(1)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: sur2023@lzu.edu.cn.
(2)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: 220220931601@lzu.edu.cn.
(3)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: zhangxueying21@lzu.edu.cn.
(4)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: qinyt2023@lzu.edu.cn.
(5)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: ymzhang@lzu.edu.cn.
(6)Gansu Key Laboratory of Biomonitoring and Bioremediation for Environmental 
Pollution, School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, 730000, China. 
Electronic address: zhangwenya@lzu.edu.cn.

The adjustment of immune defense mechanisms is a crucial aspect of biological 
adaptation to stressful environments. Amphibians, with their unique metamorphic 
process, experience distinct life stages and exhibit diverse immune defense 
components. While previous studies have focused on specific immune changes 
during particular life stages under stress, this research addresses a critical 
gap by exploring the adaptive immune defense strategies of Strauchbufo raddei in 
heavy metal-polluted environments. We conducted laboratory experiments, exposing 
offspring from both polluted and unpolluted areas to control and heavy metal 
treatments, while continuously monitoring changes in immune components during 
key metamorphic stages. Notably, we examined the role of the skin microbiome, a 
crucial but often overlooked barrier against pathogens. The results indicated 
that individuals from polluted areas exhibited some tolerance to heavy metal 
exposure, though overall immune function remained diminished. During 
metamorphosis, when immune defenses are most vulnerable, the skin microbiome 
rapidly enriched beneficial bacteria, preventing pathogenic colonization and 
playing a pivotal role in maintaining immune defense in contaminated 
environments. Moreover, our research highlights energy allocation strategies 
involving corticosterone and body fat content, enabling populations to maintain 
development despite immune compromise. The immune adaptations observed may be 
fixed through genetic assimilation, suggesting a rapid evolutionary response to 
environmental stress. However, this reduces phenotypic plasticity, making 
populations more vulnerable to future environmental changes. This study provides 
key insights into the survival strategies of amphibian populations in heavy 
metal-contaminated areas, laying the foundation for future research on molecular 
and evolutionary adaptations.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2024.123126
PMID: 39500166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Int. 2024 Nov;193:109115. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109115. Epub 2024
 Nov 1.

A potential bioaerosol source from kitchen chimneys in restaurants.

Geng X(1), Nie C(2), Li D(3), Wang M(4), Wu Y(5), Sun X(6), An T(7), Yao M(8), 
Huang J(9), Chen J(10).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University, Qingdao 
266237, China; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Atmospheric Particle Pollution and 
Prevention (LAP(3)), Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, National 
Observations and Research Station for Wetland Ecosystems of the Yangtze Estuary, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.
(2)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Atmospheric Particle Pollution and Prevention 
(LAP(3)), Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, National 
Observations and Research Station for Wetland Ecosystems of the Yangtze Estuary, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China; School of Environmental Science and 
Engineering, Qingdao University, Qingdao, 266071, China. Electronic address: 
niechangliang@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Atmospheric Particle Pollution and Prevention 
(LAP(3)), Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, National 
Observations and Research Station for Wetland Ecosystems of the Yangtze Estuary, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Microbial Technology, Shandong University, Qingdao 
266237, China.
(5)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Qingdao 
266237, China.
(6)Environment Research Institute, Shandong University, Qingdao 266237, China.
(7)Guangzhou Key Laboratory of Environmental Catalysis and Pollution Control, 
Key Laboratory of City Cluster Environmental Safety and Green Development, 
School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Guangdong University of 
Technology, Guangzhou, 510006, China.
(8)College of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Peking University, Beijing 
100871, China.
(9)Collaborative Innovation Center for Western Ecological Safety, College of 
Atmospheric Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.
(10)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Atmospheric Particle Pollution and Prevention 
(LAP(3)), Department of Environmental Science & Engineering, National 
Observations and Research Station for Wetland Ecosystems of the Yangtze Estuary, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200438, China; IRDR International Center of 
Excellence on Risk Interconnectivity and Governance on Weather/Climate Extremes 
Impact and Public Health, Institute of Atmospheric Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200438, China; Institute of Eco-Chongming (IEC), Shanghai 200062, 
China. Electronic address: jmchen@fudan.edu.cn.

Bioaerosols are ubiquitous and have a substantial impact on the atmosphere and 
human health. Despite the identification of numerous bioaerosol emission 
sources, the contribution of anthropogenic sources remains inadequately 
understood. In kitchens, oil stains accumulated at the vent may discharge 
microorganisms into the environment with airflow, potentially discharging 
bioaerosol pollution. This putative anthropogenic source of bioaerosols has been 
long ignored. To investigated whether kitchen chimneys can be a potential source 
for bioaerosols, air samples, oil stains from in/out chimneys, and surface sand 
samples were collected near several commercial restaurants. PCoA showed that 
sampling sites significantly impacted microbiomes, whereas SourceTracker 
analysis led to the finding that waste grease significantly contributed to 
bioaerosol composition. Both findings agree with the kitchen chimney as a source 
of microbes in bioaerosols in the surrounding environment. Furthermore, despite 
the low biodiversity, a high proportion of stress-tolerant and potential 
pathogenic bacteria and fungi were found in residual culinary grease, which may 
escape into the air causing potential risks to human beings. These results led 
to the proposal that airborne microbiota can originate from cooking waste 
grease. Immediate actions should be taken into account to enhance disinfection 
and sterilization aimed at fume vents.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2024.109115
PMID: 39500121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177189. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177189.  Epub 2024 Oct 30.

Unraveling methanogenesis processes and pathways for Quaternary shallow biogenic 
gas in aquifer systems through geochemical, genomic and transcriptomic analyses.

Liang W(1), Yan D(2), Zhang M(1), Wang J(1), Ni D(3), Yun S(3), Wei X(1), Zhang 
L(1), Fu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Tectonics and Petroleum Resources of Ministry of Education, 
China University of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Hubei Key Laboratory of 
Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Theory and Technology, China University 
of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Tectonics and Petroleum Resources of Ministry of Education, 
China University of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074, China; Hubei Key Laboratory of 
Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Theory and Technology, China University 
of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074, China. Electronic address: yandetian@cug.edu.cn.
(3)Inner Mongolia Geological Engineering Corporation Ltd., Hohhot 010010, China.

Shallow biogenic gas is crucial in global warming and carbon cycling. 
Considering the knowledge gap in the understanding of methanogenesis and 
metabolic mechanisms within shallow groundwater systems, we investigated 
Quaternary shallow biogenic gas resources from the Hetao Basin in North China, 
which were previously underexplored. We systematically analyzed the genesis of 
gas and formation water, microbial communities, methanogenic processes, and 
pathways using geochemistry, genomics, and transcriptomics. Our findings 
indicated that active freshwater environments are conducive to microbial 
activity and the generation of primary microbial gases. A diverse range of 
microbes with functions, such as hydrolysis (e.g., Caulobacter), acidogenesis, 
and hydrogen production (e.g., Sediminibacterium), synergistically contributed 
to the methanogenic process. Methanogens predominantly comprised 
hydrogenotrophic methanogens (e.g., Methanobacteriales), although H2-dependent 
methylotrophic methanogens (e.g., Methanofastidiosa) were also prevalent. The 
metabolic processes of the different methanogenic pathways were revealed based 
on functional gene analysis and mapping results. Furthermore, the composition of 
the community structure, functional predictions, metagenomics, and 
metatranscriptomics underscored the contribution of the hydrogenotrophic 
pathway, which ranged from 52.22 % to 79.23 %. The aceticlastic pathway 
exhibited high gene abundance and was primarily associated with methylotrophs 
and other potential pathways. The H2-dependent methylotrophic methanogenesis 
pathway was constrained by low metabolic activity. By revealing the methane 
production mechanism of biogenic gas in shallow aquifer systems, this study 
provides a new perspective and profound comprehension of its ecological and 
environmental implications worldwide.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177189
PMID: 39490825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125204. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125204.  Epub 2024 Oct 26.

Associations between pre- and post-natal exposure to phthalate and DINCH 
metabolites and gut microbiota in one-year old children.

Davias A(1), Lyon-Caen S(2), Rolland M(2), Iszatt N(3), Thomsen C(3), 
Sabaredzovic A(3), Sakhi AK(3), Monot C(4), Rayah Y(4), Ilhan ZE(4), Philippat 
C(2), Eggesbø M(5), Lepage P(4), Slama R(6).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Epidemiology Applied to Development and Respiratory Health 
Team, Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Inserm U1209, CNRS UMR 5309, 
University Grenoble Alpes, 38000, Grenoble, France. Electronic address: 
aline.davias@univ-grenoble-alpes.fr.
(2)Environmental Epidemiology Applied to Development and Respiratory Health 
Team, Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Inserm U1209, CNRS UMR 5309, 
University Grenoble Alpes, 38000, Grenoble, France.
(3)Division of Climate and Environmental Health, Norwegian Institute of Public 
Health (NIPH), 0213, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, AgroParisTech, Micalis Institute, F-78350, 
Jouy-en-Josas, France.
(5)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, NTNU, Trondheim, Norway; 
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, 
Norway.
(6)Environmental Epidemiology Applied to Development and Respiratory Health 
Team, Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Inserm U1209, CNRS UMR 5309, 
University Grenoble Alpes, 38000, Grenoble, France; SMILE, Institut de Biologie 
de l'ENS (IBENS), Ecole Normale Supérieure, Université PSL, CNRS, INSERM, 
F-75005, Paris, France; PARSEC, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Université PSL, CNRS, 
INSERM, F-75005, Paris, France.

The gut microbiota is a collection of symbiotic microorganisms in the 
gastrointestinal tract. Its sensitivity to chemicals with widespread exposure, 
such as phthalates, is little known. We aimed to investigate the impact of 
perinatal exposure to phthalates on the infant gut microbiota at 12 months of 
age. Within SEPAGES cohort (Suivi de l'Exposition à la Pollution Atmosphérique 
durant la Grossesse et Effet sur la Santé), we assessed 13 phthalate metabolites 
and 2 di(isononyl) cyclohexane-1,2-dicarboxylate (DINCH) metabolites in repeated 
urine samples collected in pregnant women and their offspring. We obtained stool 
samples from 356 children at 12 months of age and sequenced the V3-V4 region of 
the 16S rRNA gene, allowing gut bacterial profiling. We used single-chemical 
(linear regressions) and mixture (BKMR, Bayesian Kernel Machine Regression) 
models to examine associations of phthalates and DINCH metabolites, with gut 
microbiota indices of α-diversity (specific richness and Shannon diversity) and 
the relative abundances of the most abundant microbiota phyla and genera. After 
correction for multiple testing, di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (ΣDEHP), diethyl 
phthalate (DEP) and bis(2-propylheptyl) phthalate (DPHP) metabolites 12-month 
urinary concentrations were associated with higher Shannon α-diversity of the 
child gut microbiota in single-chemical models. The multiple-chemical model 
(BKMR) suggested higher α-diversity with exposure to the phthalate mixture at 12 
months, driven by the same phthalates. There were no associations between 
phthalate and DINCH exposure biomarkers at other time points and α-diversity 
after correction for multiple testing. ΣDEHP metabolites concentration at 12 
months was associated with higher Coprococcus genus. Finally, ΣDEHP exposure at 
12 months tended to be associated with higher phylum Firmicutes, an association 
not maintained after correction for multiple testing. Infancy exposure to 
phthalate might disrupt children's gut microbiota. The observed associations 
were cross-sectional, so that reverse causality cannot be excluded.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125204
PMID: 39490662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177122. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177122.  Epub 2024 Nov 1.

Coupling between microbial assemblages and environmental drivers along a 
tropical estuarine gradient.

Sara Soria-Píriz(1), Aguilar V(2), Papaspyrou S(3), García-Robledo E(3), Seguro 
I(2), Morales-Ramírez Á(4), Corzo A(3).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias Marinas y Ambientales, 
Universidad de Cádiz, Pol. Río San Pedro s/n 11510 Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain; 
Instituto Universitario de Investigación Marina (INMAR), Campus Universitario de 
Puerto Real, Universidad de Cádiz, Pol. Río San Pedro s/n 11510 Puerto Real, 
Cádiz, Spain. Electronic address: sara.soria@uca.es.
(2)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias Marinas y Ambientales, 
Universidad de Cádiz, Pol. Río San Pedro s/n 11510 Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias Marinas y Ambientales, 
Universidad de Cádiz, Pol. Río San Pedro s/n 11510 Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain; 
Instituto Universitario de Investigación Marina (INMAR), Campus Universitario de 
Puerto Real, Universidad de Cádiz, Pol. Río San Pedro s/n 11510 Puerto Real, 
Cádiz, Spain.
(4)Centro de Investigación en Ciencias del Mar y Limnología (CIMAR), P.O. Box 
2060, San Pedro, Montes de Oca, Costa Rica.

The change in the community structure of phytoplankton and bacterioplankton, and 
in the degree of coupling between them as well as the environmental conditions, 
have substantial impacts on the transfer of energy to higher trophic levels and 
finally on the fate of organic matter. The microbial community structure, 
usually described only by the abundance of the different taxonomic or functional 
groups, can be extended to include other levels of descriptors, like 
physiological state and single-cell properties. These features play a role in 
the ecological regulation of microbial communities but are not generally studied 
as additional descriptors of the community structure. Here, we show the changes 
in abundance and single-cell characteristics based on flow cytometry 
measurements of picocyanobacteria, photoautotrophic pico- and nanoeukaryotes, 
and heterotrophic bacteria during the rainy and dry seasons along the estuarine 
gradient of the inner Gulf of Nicoya. The spatiotemporal distribution of these 
microbial assemblages showed different patterns in surface and bottom waters 
along the estuarine gradient and seasonally, both in their abundances and 
single-cell traits, which suggest differences in their ecological regulation. 
The changes in the structure of the microbial community along the estuary 
correlated most significantly with the changes in environmental variables during 
the dry season. This seems to occur due to changes in salinity, concentration 
and lability of DOC, concentration of DIN and PO43- and net community 
production, largely affected by the differences in the river flow. In addition, 
during the dry season, small-size phytoplankton and bacterioplankton 
assemblages, characterised by abundance and single-cell traits, presented a 
higher level of coupling, leading to a more complex ecological network with 
respect to the rainy season.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177122
PMID: 39490395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 15;956:177314. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177314.  Epub 2024 Nov 6.

Dynamics of the airway microbiome in response to exposure to particulate matter 
2.5 in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Heo SH(1), Choi BY(2), Kang J(3), Jung JY(4), Kim HC(5), Lee SJ(6), Sul WJ(7), 
Lee SW(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Asan Medical Center, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Systems Biotechnology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea.
(3)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Ilsan Paik Hospital, Inje University College of Medicine, Goyang, 
Republic of Korea.
(4)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Severance Hospital, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, Inha University 
Hospital, Inha University College of Medicine, Incheon, Republic of Korea.
(6)Environmental Disease Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience 
and Biotechnology, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(7)Department of Systems Biotechnology, Chung-Ang University, Anseong, 
Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: sulwj@cau.ac.kr.
(8)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Asan Medical Center, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: seiwon@amc.seoul.kr.

BACKGROUND: Particulate matter (PM) and air pollution have been suggested to be 
associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), contributing 
significantly to global respiratory disease-related mortality. This study aimed 
to investigate whether seasonal exposure to PM influences dysbiosis in the 
respiratory microbiota of patients with COPD.
METHODS: Sputum samples were collected four times over 1 year from 102 patients 
with COPD, and 16S rRNA sequencing was performed. The dynamics of the airway 
microbiota were analyzed depending on PM exposure levels and season.
RESULTS: The PM-low exposure group had higher α-diversity compared to the 
PM-high exposure group, particularly noted in spring. Some bacterial groups, 
including seven species such as Treponema socranskii, were more abundant in the 
low exposure group. Additionally, the bacterial community structure in summer 
significantly differed from that in other seasons, with significantly increased 
α-diversity in this season. The difference in the airway microbiome due to PM 
exposure was prominent in patients with moderate COPD.
CONCLUSIONS: PM exposure may influence changes in the sputum microbiome 
depending on exposure levels and seasonal variations. Our results suggest that 
airway microbiomes could vary with PM exposure according to seasonal trends.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177314
PMID: 39489443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 15;956:177318. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177318.  Epub 2024 Nov 7.

Effects of burning on vegetation, soil physicochemistry and prokaryotic 
microbial communities in surface and subsurface peat.

Allingham SM(1), Drake SJ(2), Ramsey A(3), Field CD(4), Nwaishi FC(5), Elliott 
DR(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, The University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington, 
Loughborough LE12 5RD, UK; Nature-based Solutions Research Centre, University of 
Derby, Derby DE22 1GB, UK; NERC Environmental Omics Facility, School of 
Biosciences, University of Sheffield, Western Bank, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK. 
Electronic address: shaun.allingham@nottingham.ac.uk.
(2)Nature-based Solutions Research Centre, University of Derby, Derby DE22 1GB, 
UK.
(3)Buglife Scotland, Unit 4, Beta Centre, Stirling University, Innovation Park, 
Stirling FK9 4NF, UK.
(4)Department of Natural Sciences, Manchester Metropolitan University, Chester 
Street, Manchester M1 5GD, UK.
(5)Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Mount Royal University, 4825 
Mt Royal Gate SW, Calgary, AB T3E 6K6, Canada.

Prescribed burning is a common management strategy in peatlands that has the 
potential to affect soil physicochemistry, alter biogeochemical cycles and 
trigger changes in vegetation structure. How burning affects prokaryotic 
community composition across different soil profiles is not well understood. 
This study explored the effects of prescribed burning on the diversity of 
prokaryotic communities in peat soils. Soil samples were collected from Moor 
House Nature Reserve, UK, a long-term monitoring site initiated in 1954 subject 
to three burning treatments: Burning at short rotations every 10 years, burning 
at long rotations every 20 years and a non-burn control. Observed species 
richness for archaea was highest in the topsoil of the non-burn control plots 
and highest for bacteria in the topsoil of the non-burn control and plots under 
a long rotation regime. Community composition was significantly different 
between different burn treatments and soil depth. Archaeal community structure 
was shaped by NH4+ and pH in the topsoil; by Pb, moisture and Al in the 20-40 cm 
profile; and by total N, total C, Al, Ca, Fe and pH in the 40-60 cm profile. 
Bacterial community structure was shaped by NH4+, heather cover, pH and Mg in 
the topsoil; by Fe, K and Pb in the 20-40 cm profile; and by Al, Ca and Fe in 
the 40-60 cm profile. A co-occurrence network analysis revealed that the topsoil 
of the non-burn control plots had a more complex network structure with more 
positive links than those under a rotational burn, but a higher average 
connectivity with a higher number of negative links was observed in the long 
rotation 20-40 cm profile. The results provide a new insight into the response 
processes of soil prokaryotic communities to burning in peatland soils, 
providing valuable knowledge that can support the evaluation and management of 
ecosystem services in peatlands.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177318
PMID: 39489439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Nov 1;14(1):26322. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-75328-x.

Survivability and life support in sealed mini-ecosystems with simulated 
planetary soils.

Sato T(1), Abe K(2), Koseki J(3), Seto M(4), Yokoyama J(5), Akashi T(6), Terada 
M(7), Kadowaki K(8), Yoshida S(9), Yamashiki YA(10), Shimamura T(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Okayama Hakuryo High School, Akaiwa, 709-0715, Japan. 
okay.bio.sato@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, Medical Research Laboratory, 
Institute of Science Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0034, Japan.
(3)Cellular and Molecular Biotechnology Research Institute, National Institute 
of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST), Tokyo, 135-0064, Japan.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Biology, and Environmental Sciences, Nara Women's 
University, Nara, 630-8506, Japan.
(5)Faculty of Science, Yamagata University, Yamagata, 990-8560, Japan.
(6)Division of Systems Biology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan.
(7)Unit of Synergetic Studies for Space, Kyoto University, Kyoto, 606-8501, 
Japan.
(8)The Hakubi Center for Advanced Research/Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, 606-8501, Japan.
(9)Environmental Control Center for Experimental Biology, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, 819-0395, Japan.
(10)Graduate School of Advanced Integrated Studies in Human Survivability 
(GSAIS), Kyoto University, Kyoto, 606-8306, Japan.
(11)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, Medical Research 
Laboratory, Institute of Science Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-0034, Japan. 
shimamura.csb@tmd.ac.jp.
(12)Division of Systems Biology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan. shimamura.csb@tmd.ac.jp.

Establishing a sustainable life-support system for space exploration is a 
formidable challenge due to the vast distances, high costs, and environmental 
differences from Earth. Building upon the lessons from the Biosphere 2 
experiment, we introduce the novel "Ecosphere" and "Biosealed" systems, 
self-sustaining ecosystems within customizable, enclosed containers. These 
systems incorporate terrestrial ecosystems and groundwater layers, offering a 
potential model for transplanting Earth-like biomes to extraterrestrial 
environments. Over 4 years, we conducted rigorous experiments and analyses to 
understand the dynamics of these enclosed ecosystems. We successfully mitigated 
moisture deficiency, a major obstacle to plant growth, by incorporating 
groundwater layers. Additionally, we quantified microbial communities 
proliferating in specific soils, including simulated lunar and Ryugu asteroid 
regolith, enhance plant cultivation in space environments. Metagenomic analysis 
of these simulated space soils revealed diverse microbial populations and their 
crucial role in plant growth and ecosystem stability. Notably, we identified 
symbiotic relationships between plants and Cyanobacteria, enhancing oxygen 
production, and demonstrated the potential of LED lighting as an alternative 
light source for plant cultivation in sun-limited space missions. We also 
confirmed the survival of fruit flies within these systems, relying on 
plant-produced oxygen and photosynthetic bacteria. Our research provides a 
comprehensive framework for developing future space life-support systems. The 
novelty of our work lies in the unique design of our enclosed ecosystems, 
incorporating groundwater layers and simulated extraterrestrial soils, and the 
detailed analysis of microbial communities within these systems. These findings 
offer valuable insights into the challenges and potential solutions for 
establishing sustainable human habitats in space, including the importance of 
microbial management and potential health concerns related to microbial 
exposure.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-75328-x
PMCID: PMC11530624
PMID: 39487149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177304. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177304.  Epub 2024 Nov 2.

Could landscape ecology principles apply at the microscale? A metabarcoding 
approach on Trichoptera larvae-associated microbial diversity.

Allen J(1), Sire M(2), Belouard N(3), Gorzerino C(4), Coutellec MA(4), Mony 
C(5), Pannard A(6), Piscart C(5).

Author information:
(1)ECOBIO, CNRS, University of Rennes, UMR 6553, Rennes, France; LTSER-FR Zone 
Atelier Armorique, France. Electronic address: joeyallen@orange.fr.
(2)ECOBIO, CNRS, University of Rennes, UMR 6553, Rennes, France; Centre de 
Recherche sur la Biodiversité et l'Environnement (CRBE), Université de Toulouse, 
CNRS, IRD, Toulouse INP, Université Toulouse 3 - Paul Sabatier (UT3), Toulouse, 
France.
(3)ECOBIO, CNRS, University of Rennes, UMR 6553, Rennes, France.
(4)DECOD (Ecosystem Dynamics and Sustainability), INRAE, IFREMER, L'Institut 
Agro, Rennes, France.
(5)ECOBIO, CNRS, University of Rennes, UMR 6553, Rennes, France; LTSER-FR Zone 
Atelier Armorique, France.
(6)ECOBIO, CNRS, University of Rennes, UMR 6553, Rennes, France; DECOD 
(Ecosystem Dynamics and Sustainability), INRAE, IFREMER, L'Institut Agro, 
Rennes, France.

Landscape heterogeneity is known as a major factor of community structure and 
composition. Whether this effect of the landscape extends at different scales 
and particularly at the relevant scale for microorganisms remained to be 
determined. We used the cases produced by aquatic larvae of Trichoptera, which 
assemble organic or mineral particles, as naturally replicated experimental 
systems representing structured substrates to determine the effect of landscape 
structuration on microbial communities. A metabarcoding approach was used to 
characterise fungal, bacterial and diatom communities on cases produced by six 
Trichoptera species and related unstructured organic and mineral substrates. The 
structuration of the particles constituting the cases was also determined as a 
measure of microscale landscape. Structured substrates harboured communities of 
diatoms, fungi and bacteria that differed from those found on unstructured 
substrates. Microbial communities also differed between organic and mineral 
substrates. We found a higher microbial diversity on structured substrates than 
on unstructured substrates. The heterogeneity of the microscale landscape also 
affected bacterial and fungal communities within cases. These results highlight 
the importance of microscale landscape structuration for microbial diversity and 
demonstrate that approaches of landscape ecology could be downscaled to the 
microscale.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177304
PMID: 39488271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Psychiatr Res. 2024 Dec;180:307-326. doi: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.10.028. 
Epub 2024 Oct 24.

Maternal gut-microbiota impacts the influence of intrauterine environmental 
stressors on the modulation of human cognitive development and behavior.

Olasunkanmi OI(1), Aremu J(2), Wong ML(3), Licinio J(4), Zheng P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China; Institute for Brain Science and Disease, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China; Key Laboratory of Major Brain Disease and 
Aging Research (Ministry of Education) Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China. Electronic address: Olasunkanmitayo@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, College of Medicine, Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, NY, USA. Electronic address: juliolicinio@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China; Institute for Brain Science and Disease, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China; Key Laboratory of Major Brain Disease and 
Aging Research (Ministry of Education) Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 
China. Electronic address: peng-zheng@cqmu.edu.cn.

This review examines the longstanding debate of nature and intrauterine 
environmental challenges that shapes human development and behavior, with a 
special focus on the influence of maternal prenatal gut microbes. Recent 
research has revealed the critical role of the gut microbiome in human 
neurodevelopment, and evidence suggest that maternal microbiota can impact fetal 
gene and microenvironment composition, as well as immunophysiology and 
neurochemical responses. Furthermore, intrauterine neuroepigenetic regulation 
may be influenced by maternal microbiota, capable of having long-lasting effects 
on offspring behavior and cognition. By examining the complex relationship 
between maternal prenatal gut microbes and human development, this review 
highlights the importance of early-life environmental factors in shaping 
neurodevelopment and cognition.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2024.10.028
PMID: 39488009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest I am writing 
to submit my manuscript titled “Maternal gut-microbiota impacts the influence of 
intrauterine environmental stressors on the modulation of human cognitive 
development and behaviour” for consideration in the Journal of Psychiatric 
Research. I would like to declare that there is no potential conflicts of 
interest that may arise from the publication. Please do not hesitate to contact 
me if you require any further information or clarification regarding our 
declaration of interest. We appreciate your consideration of our manuscript for 
publication in the Journal of Psychiatric Research.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125226. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125226.  Epub 2024 Oct 30.

Comparative analysis of the microbial plastisphere at three sites along the 
Sarno river (Italy).

Donnarumma V(1), Trano AC(1), D'Agostino F(2), Piredda R(3), Casotti R(4).

Author information:
(1)Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa Comunale, Naples, Italy.
(2)Istituto per lo Studio Degli Impatti Antropici e Sostenibilità in Ambiente 
Marino (IAS-CNR), Via del Mare 3, Torretta Granitola, TP, 91021, Italy. 
Electronic address: fabio.dagostino@cnr.it.
(3)Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa Comunale, Naples, Italy; NBFC, National 
Biodiversity Future Center, Piazza Marina 61, 90133 Palermo, Italy. Electronic 
address: roberta.piredda@uniba.it.
(4)Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa Comunale, Naples, Italy. Electronic 
address: raffaella.casotti@szn.it.

This study investigated microplastics (MP) and their associated microbial 
plastisphere in the Sarno river (Italy), its estuary and in the nearby coastal 
area in January 2020. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), High Throughput 
Sequencing (HTS) and Fourier-Transformed Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) were used 
to characterize the collected MPs and their associated microbes. The three 
stations sampled differed substantially for MP concentrations and microbial 
communities, with the estuarine station showing very high MP concentrations 
(2048.6 MP m-3), highlighting the threat represented by the river for the 
coastal marine area and its ecosystem. The prokaryotic plastisphere showed 
differences between the three stations sampled, in terms of community 
composition, with only 75 Amplicon Sequence Variants (ASV) in common. The 
Comamonadaceae was the most abundant family in MP-attached and freshwater 
communities, and this lifestyle seems to be pivotal in the colonization of new 
habitats while flowing towards the sea. The results highlight the importance of 
the plastisphere in colonization of new habitats and support the need of correct 
management and risk mitigation efforts.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125226
PMID: 39486678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125222. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125222.  Epub 2024 Oct 30.

Air quality in olive mill wastewater evaporation ponds: Assessment of chemical 
and microbiological pollutants.

Viteri G(1), Rodríguez A(2), Aranda A(1), Díaz de Mera Y(1), Rodríguez D(3), 
Rodriguez-Fariñas N(3), Valiente N(4), Belinchón G(4), Seseña S(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Chemical Sciences and Technologies, Avenida Camilo José Cela S/n, 
13071, Ciudad Real, University of Castilla-La Mancha (UCLM), Spain.
(2)Faculty of Environmental Sciences and Biochemistry, Environmental Sciences 
Institute (ICAM), Avda Carlos III s/n, 45071, Toledo, UCLM, Spain. Electronic 
address: anamaria.rodriguez@uclm.es.
(3)Faculty of Environmental Sciences and Biochemistry, Environmental Sciences 
Institute (ICAM), Avda Carlos III s/n, 45071, Toledo, UCLM, Spain.
(4)Department of Science and Agroforestry Technology and Genetics, Campus 
Universitario s/n, 02071, Albacete, UCLM, Spain.

Olive mill wastewater (OMW), a pollutant residue from the olive oil industry, is 
typically stored as sludge in evaporation ponds. This study examines the 
long-term emissions of OMW sludge and its impact on local air quality, analysing 
chemical pollutants like PM2.5, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and trace 
elements (TEs), along with microbial communities (bacteria and fungi). The study 
also considered meteorological conditions and back-trajectories to identify 
sources of these elements. The ecological risk index (ERI) was found to be over 
720 due to high Hg levels in the sludge (19.0 ± 0.9 ng/g) and air 
(0.28 ± 0.13 ng/m³), indicating a significant ecological threat. VOCs, 
particularly oxygenated compounds such as aldehydes and phenol, contributed to 
the area's strong odour. Meteorological conditions and Sahara dust intrusions 
influenced bioaerosol loads and seasonal bacterial diversity, whose composition 
is closely associated with VOC concentrations. The results could contribute to a 
better understanding of the environmental dynamics in the OMW sludge evaporation 
ponds, and they could also assist in formulating effective management 
strategies.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125222
PMID: 39486675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Neurotherapeutics. 2024 Oct;21(6):e00476. doi: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00476. 
Epub 2024 Oct 31.

Thinking outside the brain: Gut microbiome influence on innate immunity within 
neurodegenerative disease.

Merchak AR(1), Bolen ML(2), Tansey MG(3), Menees KB(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative 
Disease, College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Aligning 
Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, Chevy Chase, 
MD, USA. Electronic address: amerchak@ufl.edu.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative 
Disease, College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Aligning 
Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, Chevy Chase, 
MD, USA. Electronic address: m.bolen@ufl.edu.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative 
Disease, College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Aligning 
Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, Chevy Chase, 
MD, USA; Norman Fixel Institute for Neurological Diseases, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. Electronic address: mgtansey@ufl.edu.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA; Center for Translational Research in Neurodegenerative 
Disease, College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; 
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Aligning 
Science Across Parkinson's (ASAP) Collaborative Research Network, Chevy Chase, 
MD, USA. Electronic address: kellymenees@ufl.edu.

The complex network of factors that contribute to neurodegeneration have 
hampered the discovery of effective preventative measures. While much work has 
focused on brain-first therapeutics, it is becoming evident that physiological 
changes outside of the brain are the best target for early interventions. 
Specifically, myeloid cells, including peripheral macrophages and microglia, are 
a sensitive population of cells whose activity can directly impact neuronal 
health. Myeloid cell activity includes cytokine production, migration, debris 
clearance, and phagocytosis. Environmental measures that can modulate these 
activities range from toxin exposure to diet. However, one of the most 
influential mediators of myeloid fitness is the gut microenvironment. Here, we 
review the current data about the role of myeloid cells in gastrointestinal 
disorders, Parkinson's disease, dementia, and multiple sclerosis. We then delve 
into the gut microbiota modulating therapies available and clinical evidence for 
their use in neurodegeneration. Modulating lifestyle and environmental mediators 
of inflammation are one of the most promising interventions for 
neurodegeneration and a systematic and concerted effort to examine these factors 
in healthy aging is the next frontier.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurot.2024.e00476
PMCID: PMC11585893
PMID: 39482179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflicting interests.

1. Sci Rep. 2024 Oct 30;14(1):26131. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-73281-3.

Community composition and seasonal dynamics of microplastic biota in the Eastern 
Mediterranean Sea.

Davidov K(1), Marsay KS(1), Itzahri S(1), Rubin-Blum M(2), Sobral P(3), Kranzler 
CF(4), Oren M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
(2)Israel Oceanographic and Limnological Research, National Institute of 
Oceanography, Tel Shikmona, Haifa, Israel.
(3)MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre & ARNET - Aquatic Research 
Network Associated Laboratory, NOVA School of Science and Technology, NOVA 
University of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.
(4)Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat 
Gan, Israel.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel. 
matanor@ariel.ac.il.

Marine plastic pollution poses a growing environmental threat, with 
microplastics accumulating in the global oceans. This study profiles the 
seasonal dynamics and taxonomic composition of the plastisphere, the 
microplastic ecosystem, in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea. Using long-read 16 S 
and 18 S metabarcoding, we analyzed offshore microplastic and whole seawater 
samples across each season over a two-year period. The analysis revealed a 
higher richness of prokaryotic communities on microplastics compared to 
seawater, which was predominantly composed of Proteobacteria and Bacteroidota 
and exhibited notable seasonal variability. Benthic eukaryotes were enriched on 
microplastics compared to the surrounding seawater. Diatoms (Bacillariophyceae), 
in particular, showed significant enrichment within the microplastic eukaryotic 
community with primarily pennate diatoms of Amphora, Navicula, and Nitzschia 
genera, whereas the seawater included mostly centric diatoms. Seasonal 
fluctuations were less pronounced in the microplastic communities than in 
seawater, highlighting the relative stability of this new human-made ecosystem. 
These findings underscore the unique ecological niche of microplastic-associated 
communities in marine environments.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-73281-3
PMCID: PMC11526100
PMID: 39477997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136326. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136326.
Epub  2024 Oct 26.

Mechanisms underlying Th2-dominant pneumonia caused by plastic pollution 
derivatives (PPD): A molecular toxicology investigation that encompasses gut 
microbiomics and lung metabolomics.

Lu S(1), Feng Q(1), Chen M(2), Zeng X(1), Wei H(1), Chen Q(1), Guo H(3), Su 
L(4), Yan B(5), Wu Y(5), Yang X(6), Ma P(7).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Environmental Related Diseases and One Health, Xianning 
Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning 437100, 
China.
(2)Section of Environmental Biomedicine, Hubei Key Laboratory of Genetic 
Regulation and Integrative Biology, College of Life Sciences, Central China 
Normal University, Wuhan 430079, China.
(3)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University, 999077, Hong Kong.
(4)National Institute of Environmental Health, Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Environmental Related Diseases and One Health, Xianning 
Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning 437100, 
China; Hubei Industrial Technology Research Institute of Intelligent Health, 
Xianning 437100, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Environmental Related Diseases and One Health, Xianning 
Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning 437100, 
China; Hubei Industrial Technology Research Institute of Intelligent Health, 
Xianning 437100, China; Institute of Eastern-Himalaya Biodiversity Research, 
Dali University, Dali 671003, Yunnan, China.
(7)Key Laboratory of Environmental Related Diseases and One Health, Xianning 
Medical College, Hubei University of Science and Technology, Xianning 437100, 
China; Hubei Industrial Technology Research Institute of Intelligent Health, 
Xianning 437100, China. Electronic address: maping@hbstu.edu.cn.

An investigation was conducted by researchers on how dibutyl phthalate (DBP) and 
polystyrene microplastics (PS-MP) influence the development of pneumonia using a 
mouse model. For a duration of five weeks, the mice were subjected to exposure 
of DBP (30 mg/kg/day) and PS-MP (0.1 mg/day). The findings indicated notable 
pathological alterations in airway tissues, increased oxidative stress levels, 
and intensified inflammation, thereby establishing a connection between plastic 
pollution and pneumonia. Further examination indicated the involvement of 
ferroptosis and oxidative stress in the progression of the disease. 
Administration of deferoxamine (DFO) (100 mg/kg) resulted in symptom relief and 
reduced pathological alterations, as validated by metabolomic investigations. 
Increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) triggered a Th2-mediated 
eosinophilic inflammatory response, marked by elevated IL-4 and reduced IFN-γ 
via the NFκB pathway. Moreover, analyses of the gut microbiome and metabolomics 
demonstrated that PPD modifies microbial populations and pulmonary metabolism, 
linking its effects on pneumonia through the gut-lung axis. This research 
highlights the health hazards associated with plastic pollution and proposes a 
framework for tackling these issues.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136326
PMID: 39476687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Health (Wash). 2024 Aug 8;2(10):739-749. doi:
10.1021/envhealth.4c00125.  eCollection 2024 Oct 18.

Association between Exposure to Metals during Pregnancy, Childhood Gut 
Microbiome, and Risk of Intestinal Inflammation in Late Childhood.

Midya V(1), Agrawal M(2)(3), Lane JM(1), Gennings C(1), Tarassishin L(4), 
Torres-Olascoaga LA(5), Eggers J(6)(7), Gregory JK(8), Picker M(4), Peter I(4), 
Faith JJ(6)(9), Arora M(1), Téllez-Rojo MM(5), Wright RO(1), Colombel JF(2), 
Eggers S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine and Climate Science, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 10029-6574, New York, United States.
(2)The Dr. Henry D. Janowitz Division of Gastroenterology, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 10029-6574, New York, United States.
(3)Center for Molecular Prediction of Inflammatory Bowel Disease (PREDICT), 
Department of Clinical Medicine, Aalborg University, Copenhagen 9220, Denmark.
(4)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine, New 
York 10029-6574, New York, United States.
(5)Center for Research on Nutrition and Health, National Institute of Public 
Health, Cuernavaca 62508, Mexico.
(6)Department of Immunology and Immunotherapy, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount 
Sinai, New York 10029-6574, New York, United States.
(7)Department of Epidemiology, University of Iowa College of Public Health, Iowa 
City 52242, Iowa, United States.
(8)Instructional Technology Group, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New 
York 10029-6574, New York, United States.
(9)Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York 10029-6574, New York, United States.

Alterations to the gut microbiome and exposure to metals during pregnancy have 
been suggested to impact inflammatory bowel disease. Nonetheless, how prenatal 
exposure to metals eventually results in long-term effects on the gut 
microbiome, leading to subclinical intestinal inflammation, particularly during 
late childhood, has not been studied. It is also unknown whether such an 
interactive effect drives a specific subgroup of children toward elevated 
susceptibility to intestinal inflammation. We used an amalgamation of 
machine-learning techniques with a regression-based framework to explore if 
children with distinct sets of gut microbes and certain patterns of exposure to 
metals during pregnancy (metal-microbial clique signature) had a higher 
likelihood of intestinal inflammation, measured based on fecal calprotectin (FC) 
in late childhood. We obtained samples from a well-characterized longitudinal 
birth cohort from Mexico City (n = 108), Mexico. In the second and third 
trimesters of pregnancy, 11 metals were measured in whole blood. Gut microbial 
abundances and FC were measured in stool samples from children 9-11 years of 
age. Elevated FC was defined as having FC above 100 μg/g of stool. We identified 
subgroups of children in whom microbial and metal-microbial clique signatures 
were associated with elevated FC (false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05). In 
particular, we found two metal-microbial clique signatures significantly 
associated with elevated FC: (1) low cesium (Cs) and copper (Cu) in the third 
trimester and low relative abundance of Eubacterium ventriosum (OR [95%CI]: 
10.27 [3.57,29.52], FDR < 0.001) and (2) low Cu in the third trimester and high 
relative abundances of Roseburia inulinivorans and Ruminococcus torques (OR 
[95%CI]: 7.21 [1.81,28.77], FDR < 0.05). This exploratory study demonstrates 
that children with specific gut microbes and specific exposure patterns to 
metals during pregnancy may have higher fecal calprotectin levels in late 
childhood, denoting an elevated risk of intestinal inflammation.

© 2024 The Authors. Co-published by Research Center for Eco-Environmental 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, and American Chemical Society.

DOI: 10.1021/envhealth.4c00125
PMCID: PMC11501044
PMID: 39474439

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following competing 
financial interest(s): The corresponding author confirms on behalf of all 
authors that there have been no involvements that might raise the question of 
bias in the work reported or in the conclusions, implications, or opinions 
stated. V.M., C.G., L.T., L.A.T.-O., J.E., M.P., J.K.G., I.P., M.M.T.-R., 
R.O.W., and S.E. report no conflicts of interest. M. Agrawal has consulted for 
Douglas Pharmaceuticals. J.J.F. is on the Scientific Advisory Board of Vedanta 
Biosciences. M. Arora is an employee and equity holder of Linus Biotechnology 
Inc., a start-up company of Mount Sinai Health System that develops tools for 
the detection of autism spectrum disorder and related conditions. J.-F.C. 
reports receiving research grants from AbbVie, Janssen Pharmaceuticals and 
Takeda; receiving payment for lectures from AbbVie, Amgen, Allergan Inc., 
Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Shire, and Takeda; receiving consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Amgen, Arena Pharmaceuticals, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Celgene Corporation, Eli Lilly, Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Galmed 
Research, Glaxo Smith Kline, Geneva, Iterative Scopes, Janssen Pharmaceuticals, 
Kaleido Biosciences, Landos, Otsuka, Pfizer, Prometheus, Sanofi, Takeda, 
TiGenix; and holding stock options in Intestinal Biotech Development.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177199. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177199.  Epub 2024 Nov 2.

Seasonal responses of microbial communities to water quality variations and 
interaction of eutrophication risk in Gehu Lake.

Chen Q(1), Liu Y(1), Zhang M(1), Lin K(1), Wang Z(2), Liu L(3).

Author information:
(1)State Environmental Protection Key Laboratory of Environmental Risk 
Assessment and Control on Chemical Process, East China University of Science and 
Technology, Shanghai 200237, China.
(2)School of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai 200240, China.
(3)State Environmental Protection Key Laboratory of Environmental Risk 
Assessment and Control on Chemical Process, East China University of Science and 
Technology, Shanghai 200237, China. Electronic address: lilyliu@ecust.edu.cn.

Gehu Lake, as a key upstream reservoir of Taihu Lake, China, plays a crucial 
role in improving the water quality, and eutrophication control of the Taihu 
Lake Basin. Although the microbial communities are significantly important in 
maintaining the ecological health of lake, the microbial response to water 
quality, especially for eutrophication has been rarely reported in Gehu Lake. In 
this study, the water quality parameters and the corresponding effects on the 
structure and function of microbial communities were determined seasonally. It 
was found that the poorest water quality in summer (Water Quality 
Index = 116.52) with severe eutrophication (Trophic Level Index >70), was 
primarily driven by agricultural non-point sources (33.4%) and seasonal 
pollution (23.8%). The chemical oxygen demand (COD) was the most important 
indicator of water quality that affected the concentration of Chlorophyll-a 
(Chla) according to Pearson correlation analysis (p < 0.001), random forest 
modeling (p < 0.01), and structural equation modeling (path 
coefficient = 0.926). Redundancy analysis revealed that total nitrogen, total 
phosphorus, Chla, and COD significantly influenced the microbial community 
(p < 0.05). Microbial co-occurrence networks demonstrated significantly seasonal 
variations, and winter exhibited a more complex structure under lower 
temperature and limited nutrients compared to the other seasons. In addition, 
the Chla-sensitive microbial species that involved in nitrogen and phosphorus 
metabolism were identified as the biological indicators of eutrophication in 
response to the changes of seasonal water quality. These findings have taken 
insights into the interactions between water quality and microbial communities, 
and might provide the basis for improvement of the ecological and environmental 
management of Gehu Lake, as well as the control of eutrophication in Taihu Lake.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177199
PMID: 39471940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. NPJ Biofilms Microbiomes. 2024 Oct 27;10(1):114. doi: 
10.1038/s41522-024-00590-w.

Segatella clades adopt distinct roles within a single individual's gut.

Xiao X(1), Singh A(1), Giometto A(2), Brito IL(3).

Author information:
(1)Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA.
(2)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
NY, USA.
(3)Meinig School of Biomedical Engineering, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. 
ibrito@cornell.edu.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2024 May 20:2024.05.20.595015. doi: 10.1101/2024.05.20.595015.

Segatella is a prevalent genus within individuals' gut microbiomes worldwide, 
especially in non-Western populations. Although metagenomic assembly and genome 
isolation have shed light on its genetic diversity, the lack of available 
isolates from this genus has resulted in a limited understanding of how members' 
genetic diversity translates into phenotypic diversity. Within the confines of a 
single gut microbiome, we have isolated 63 strains from diverse lineages of 
Segatella. We performed comparative analyses that exposed differences in 
cellular morphologies, preferences in polysaccharide utilization, yield of 
short-chain fatty acids, and antibiotic resistance across isolates. We further 
show that exposure to Segatella isolates either evokes strong or muted 
transcriptional responses in human intestinal epithelial cells. Our study 
exposes large phenotypic differences within related Segatella isolates, 
extending this to host-microbe interactions.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41522-024-00590-w
PMCID: PMC11514259
PMID: 39465298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125174. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125174.  Epub 2024 Oct 24.

Microcystin exposure alters gut microbiota composition in fish: An in-Situ 
analysis of post-bloom effects in Hulun Lake, China.

Shang Y(1), Wu X(1), Wang X(1), Chen Y(1), Dong Y(2), Wei Q(1), Pang B(3), Wang 
Q(3), Liu G(1), Dou H(3), Zhang H(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Qufu Normal University, Qufu, Shandong Province, 
China.
(2)College of Life Sciences, Qufu Normal University, Qufu, Shandong Province, 
China; College of Wildlife and Protected Area, Northeast Forestry University, 
Harbin, China.
(3)Hulunbuir Academy of Inland Lakes in Northern Cold & Arid Areas, Hulunbuir, 
China.
(4)College of Life Sciences, Qufu Normal University, Qufu, Shandong Province, 
China. Electronic address: zhanghonghai67@126.com.

Cyanobacterial blooms are one of the most common stressors aquatic plants and 
animals encounter in freshwater ecosystems such as rivers and lakes. Following 
such outbreaks, some cyanobacteria release toxins, notably microcystins, which 
are highly toxic. Although numerous studies have explored the effects of 
microcystins on fish, their in-situ effects on the fish gut microbiome remain 
unexamined. Our objectives were to examine the fish gut microbiome before (Ju) 
and after (Au) cyanobacterial blooms and to monitor water quality. We collected 
Ju and Au fish gut and water samples from Hulun Lake. Using 16S rRNA full-length 
sequencing, we analyzed the composition, structure, and function of the fish gut 
microbiome. Results revealed significant disparities in microcystin 
concentrations between the Ju and Au water samples. In addition, the microcystin 
concentration in the carp gut was significantly higher than that in its muscle 
after the cyanobacterial bloom outbreak. Notably, the Au group demonstrated an 
increase in the microcystin level in water and a marked reduction in fish gut 
microbiota diversity compared with the Ju group. The cyanobacterial bloom 
decreased gut microbiome diversity in fish, with the Au group exhibiting a 
significantly reduced abundance of bacteria related to gut stability and 
microcystin degradation compared to the Ju group. Furthermore, we observed an 
upregulation of disease-associated bacterial metabolic functions in the Au 
group. In conclusion, these findings suggest that microcystins influence the 
composition and function of fish gut microbiota, improving our understanding of 
the interaction between fish gut microbiome and their environment. This study 
offers new perspectives on the adaptive mechanisms of aquatic organisms to 
cyanobacterial blooms.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125174
PMID: 39461610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 2):125200. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125200.  Epub 2024 Oct 25.

Spatio-temporal variations in activity of aerobic methane oxidation and 
community structure of methanotrophs in sediment of Wuxijiang river.

He Y(1), Yang Y(1), Huang H(1), Yang W(1), Ren B(1), Hu Q(1), Jin J(1), Wen 
S(1), Cheng H(2), Shen L(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Ecosystem Carbon Source and Sink, China Meteorological 
Administration (ECSS-CMA), School of Ecology and Applied Meteorology, Nanjing 
University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China.
(2)College of Chemistry and Material Engineering, Quzhou University, Quzhou, 
324000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Ecosystem Carbon Source and Sink, China Meteorological 
Administration (ECSS-CMA), School of Ecology and Applied Meteorology, Nanjing 
University of Information Science and Technology, Nanjing, 210044, China. 
Electronic address: shenld@nuist.edu.cn.

Rivers are hotspots for methane (CH4) emissions, and aerobic methane oxidation 
is a crucial process in controlling emissions. The spatio-temporal heterogeneity 
of river environment can greatly affect the methane oxidation process. However, 
currently, few studies have focused on the spatio-temporal changes in activity 
of methane oxidation and the associated microbiome in riverine ecosystems, which 
hinders a comprehensive understanding the role of this process in reducing 
emissions of CH4. Here, we investigated the variations in methane oxidation 
activity and community of methanotrophs in sediment of a mountain river across 
different reaches and seasons. The potential methane oxidation rate ranged from 
24.11 to 493.03 nmol CH4 g-1 (sediment) d-1, which was significantly greater in 
sediment obtained during the winter than in that obtained during the summer. 
Moreover, the rate in middle reaches was significantly greater than that in 
upper and lower reaches in summer. The abundance of pmoA gene of methanotrophs 
ranged from 2.45 × 10⁶ to 2.98 × 10⁷ copies g-1 (sediment), which was also 
significantly greater in winter than in summer and showed significant variations 
among reaches. Additionally, methanotrophic diversity and community composition 
exhibited significant variations across both reaches and seasons, and the 
relative abundance of Methylococcus and Methylocystis was closely associated 
with methane oxidation activity. Sediment NH4+ content, pH and temperature were 
potentially crucial factors affecting the activity or methanotrophic community. 
In conclusion, it is necessary to consider both temporal and spatial scales to 
improve our understanding of the significance and driving mechanisms of methane 
oxidation in controlling CH4 emissions from rivers.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125200
PMID: 39461609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Microorganisms. 2024 Sep 30;12(10):1998. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms12101998.

Multi-Omics Analysis Unravels the Impact of Stool Sample Logistics on 
Metabolites and Microbial Composition.

Krause JL(1), Engelmann B(2), Lallinger DJD(1), Rolle-Kampczyk U(2), von Bergen 
M(2)(3)(4), Chang HD(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)German Rheumatism Research Center Berlin, A Leibniz Institute-DRFZ, Schwiete 
Laboratory for Microbiota and Inflammation, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Helmholtz-Centre for Environmental Research-UFZ, Department of Molecular 
Toxicology, 04318 Leipzig, Germany.
(3)Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biosciences, Pharmacy and Psychology, 
University of Leipzig, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(4)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) 
Halle-Jena-Leipzig, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Department for Cytometry, Institute of Biotechnology, Technical University 
Berlin, 10115 Berlin, Germany.

Human health and the human microbiome are inevitably intertwined, increasing 
their relevance in clinical research. However, the collection, transportation 
and storage of faecal samples may introduce bias due to methodological 
differences, especially since postal shipping is a common practise in 
large-scale clinical cohort studies. Using four different Omics layer, we 
determined the structural (16S rRNA sequencing, cytometric microbiota profiling) 
and functional integrity (SCFAs, global metabolome) of the microbiota in 
relation to different easy-to-handle conditions. These conditions were storage 
at -20 °C, -20 °C as glycerol stock, 4 °C and room temperature with and without 
oxygen exposure for a maximum of one week. Storage time affected the microbiota 
on all Omics levels. However, the magnitude was donor-dependent, highlighting 
the need for purpose-optimized sample collection in clinical multi-donor 
studies. The effects of oxygen exposure were negligible for all analyses. At 
ambient temperature, SCFA and compositional profiles were stable for 24 h and 48 
h, respectively, while at 4 °C, SCFA profiles were maintained for 48 h. The 
global metabolome was highly susceptible, already changing at 24 h in non-frozen 
conditions. Thus, faecal microbiota was best preserved on all levels when 
transported as a native sample frozen within 24 h, leading to the least biased 
outcomes in the analysis. We conclude that the immediate freezing of native 
stool samples for transportation to the lab is best suited for planned 
multi-Omics analyses that include metabolomics to extend standard sequencing 
approaches.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms12101998
PMCID: PMC11509235
PMID: 39458307

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

1. Biomedicines. 2024 Oct 7;12(10):2274. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines12102274.

Modelling a Western Lifestyle in Mice: A Novel Approach to Eradicating Aerobic 
Spore-Forming Bacteria from the Colonic Microbiome and Assessing Long-Term 
Clinical Outcomes.

Horwell E(1)(2), Ferreira W(2), Hong H(2), Bearn P(1), Cutting S(2).

Author information:
(1)Colorectal Surgical Unit, Ashford & St Peter's Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, London KT16 0PZ, UK.
(2)Biomedical Science Unit, Royal Holloway University of London, London TW20 
0EY, UK.

INTRODUCTION: The environmentally acquired aerobic spore-forming (EAS-Fs) 
bacteria that are ubiquitous in nature (e.g., soil) are transient colonisers of 
the mammalian gastro-intestinal tract. Without regular exposure, their numbers 
quickly diminish. These species of bacteria have been suggested to be essential 
to the normal functioning of metabolic and immunogenic health. The modern 
Western lifestyle restricts exposure to these EAS-Fs, possibly explaining part 
of the pathogenesis of many Western diseases. To date, the only animal studies 
that address specific microbiome modelling are based around germ-free animals. 
We have designed a new animal model that specifically restricts exposure to 
environmental sources of bacteria.
METHODOLOGY: A new protocol, termed Super Clean, which involves housing mice in 
autoclaved individually ventilated cages (IVCs), with autoclaved food/water and 
strict ascetic handling practice was first experimentally validated. The 
quantification of EAS-Fs was assessed by heat-treating faecal samples and 
measuring colony-forming units (CFUs). This was then compared to mice in 
standard conditions. Mice were housed in their respective groups from birth 
until 18 months. Stool samples were taken throughout the experiment to assess 
for abundance in transiently acquired environmental bacteria. Clinical, 
biochemical, histological, and gene expression markers were analysed for 
diabetes, hypercholesterolaemia, obesity, inflammatory bowel disease, and 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (the "diseases of the West").
RESULTS: Our results show that stringent adherence to the Super Clean protocol 
produces a significantly decreased abundance of aerobic spore-forming Bacillota 
after 21 days. This microbiomic shift was correlated with significantly 
increased levels of obesity and impaired glucose metabolism. There was no 
evidence of colitis, liver disease or hypercholesterolaemia.
CONCLUSIONS: This new murine model successfully isolates EAS-Fs and has 
potential utility for future research, allowing for an investigation into the 
clinical impact of living in relative hygienic conditions.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines12102274
PMCID: PMC11504893
PMID: 39457587

Conflict of interest statement: Professor Simon Cutting is the SEO of SporeGen 
LTD.

1. Metabolites. 2024 Oct 11;14(10):544. doi: 10.3390/metabo14100544.

Non/Low-Caloric Artificial Sweeteners and Gut Microbiome: From Perturbed Species 
to Mechanisms.

Feng J(1), Peng J(1), Hsiao YC(1), Liu CW(1), Yang Y(1), Zhao H(1), Teitelbaum 
T(1), Wang X(1), Lu K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, Gillings School of 
Global Public Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599, USA.

BACKGROUND: Non/low-caloric artificial sweeteners (NAS) are recognized as 
chemical additives substituting sugars to avoid caloric intake and subsequent 
sugar-derived diseases such as diabetes and hyperglycemia. Six NAS have been 
claimed safe and are authorized by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for 
public use, with acceptable daily intake information available: aspartame, 
acesulfame-K, saccharin, sucralose, neotame, and advantame. However, the impacts 
of NAS on the gut microbiome have raised potential concerns, since sporadic 
research revealed NAS-induced microbial changes in the gastrointestinal tracts 
and alterations in the microbiome-host interactive metabolism.
METHODS: Given the fact that the gut microbiome influences kaleidoscopic 
physiological functions in host health, this review aimed to decipher the 
impacts of NAS on the gut microbiome by implementing a comprehensive two-stage 
literature analysis based on each NAS.
RESULTS: This review documented disturbed microbiomes due to NAS exposure to a 
maximal resolution of species level using taxonomic clustering analysis, and 
recorded metabolism alterations involved in gut microbiome-host interactions.
CONCLUSIONS: The results elucidated that specific NAS exhibited discrepant 
impacts on the gut microbiome, even though overlapping on the genera and species 
were identified. Some NAS caused glucose tolerance impairment in the host, but 
the key metabolites and their underlying mechanisms were different. Furthermore, 
this review embodied the challenges and future directions of current NAS-gut 
microbiome research to inspire advanced examination of the NAS exposure-gut 
microbiome-host metabolism axis.

DOI: 10.3390/metabo14100544
PMCID: PMC11509705
PMID: 39452925

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Antibiotics (Basel). 2024 Oct 16;13(10):976. doi: 10.3390/antibiotics13100976.

Molecular Mechanisms of Biofilm Formation in Helicobacter pylori.

Fauzia KA(1)(2), Effendi WI(3), Alfaray RI(4), Malaty HM(5)(6), Yamaoka 
Y(4)(5)(6), Mifthussurur M(2)(5).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Preclinical and Clinical Medicine, National Research and 
Innovation Agency, Bogor 16915, Indonesia.
(2)Helicobacter pylori and Microbiota Study Group, Institute of Tropical 
Disease, Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya 60131, Indonesia.
(3)Department of Pulmonology and Respiratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Universitas Airlangga, Surabaya 60131, Indonesia.
(4)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine-The Research Center for 
GLOBAL and LOCAL Infectious Disease (RCGLID), Faculty of Medicine, Oita 
University, Yufu 879-5593, Japan.
(5)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(6)Division of Gastroentero-Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine-Dr. Soetomo Teaching Hospital, Univcersitas Airlangga, Surabaya 
60286, Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Biofilm formation in Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) helps bacteria 
survive antibiotic exposure and supports bacterial colonization and persistence 
in the stomach. Most of the published articles have focused on one aspect of the 
biofilm. Therefore, we conducted the current study to better understand the 
mechanism of biofilm formation, how the biofilm contributes to antibiotic 
resistance, and how the biofilm modifies the medication delivery mechanism.
METHODS: We conducted a literature review analysis of the published articles on 
the Helicobacter pylori biofilm between 1998 and 2024 from the PubMed database 
to retrieve eligible articles. After applying the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria, two hundred and seventy-three articles were eligible for our study.
RESULTS: The results showed that biofilm formation starts as adhesion and 
progresses through micro-colonies, maturation, and dispersion in a planktonic 
form. Moreover, specific genes modulate each phase of biofilm formation. Few 
studies have shown that mechanisms, such as quorum sensing and diffusible signal 
factors, enhance coordination among bacteria when switching from biofilm to 
planktonic states. Different protein expressions were also observed between 
planktonic and biofilm strains, and the biofilm architecture was supported by 
exopolysaccharides, extracellular DNA, and outer membrane vesicles.
CONCLUSIONS: This infrastructure is responsible for the increased survival of 
bacteria, especially in harsh environments or in the presence of antibiotics. 
Therefore, understanding the biofilm formation for H. pylori is crucial. This 
study illustrates biofilm formation in H. pylori to help improve the treatment 
of H. pylori infection.

DOI: 10.3390/antibiotics13100976
PMCID: PMC11504965
PMID: 39452242

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. 
The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, 
or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision 
to publish the results.

1. J Xenobiot. 2024 Oct 21;14(4):1595-1612. doi: 10.3390/jox14040086.

Air-Pollution-Mediated Microbial Dysbiosis in Health and Disease: Lung-Gut Axis 
and Beyond.

Mazumder MHH(1)(2)(3), Hussain S(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Pharmacology & Toxicology, School of Medicine, West 
Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(2)Center for Inhalation Toxicology (iTOX), School of Medicine, West Virginia 
University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical and Pharmacological Sciences, School of 
Pharmacy, West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology, School of Medicine, West Virginia University, 
Morgantown, WV 26506, USA.

Growing evidence suggests physiological and pathological functions of lung and 
gut microbiomes in various pathologies. Epidemiological and experimental data 
associate air pollution exposure with host microbial dysbiosis in the lungs and 
gut. Air pollution through increased reactive oxygen species generation, the 
disruption of epithelial barrier integrity, and systemic inflammation modulates 
microbial imbalance. Microbiome balance is crucial in regulating inflammation 
and metabolic pathways to maintain health. Microbiome dysbiosis is proposed as a 
potential mechanism for the air-pollution-induced modulation of pulmonary and 
systemic disorders. Microbiome-based therapeutic approaches are increasingly 
gaining attention and could have added value in promoting lung health. This 
review summarizes and discusses air-pollution-mediated microbiome alterations in 
the lungs and gut in humans and mice and elaborates on their role in health and 
disease. We discuss and summarize the current literature, highlight important 
mechanisms that lead to microbial dysbiosis, and elaborate on pathways that 
potentially link lung and lung microbiomes in the context of environmental 
exposures. Finally, we discuss the lung-liver-gut axis and its potential 
pathophysiological implications in air-pollution-mediated pathologies through 
microbial dysbiosis.

DOI: 10.3390/jox14040086
PMCID: PMC11503347
PMID: 39449427

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177032. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177032.  Epub 2024 Oct 22.

Machine learning models reveal how polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons influence 
environmental bacterial communities.

Gao M(1), Zheng G(2), Lei C(1), Cui R(1), Chen J(3), Lou J(1), Sun L(1), Lu 
T(4), Qian H(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310032, 
PR China.
(2)Zhejiang Anglikang Pharmaceutical Cooperation, Shengzhou 312400, PR China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Pollution Exposure and Health Intervention of Zhejiang 
Province, Interdisciplinary Research Academy, Zhejiang Shuren University, 
Hangzhou 310015, PR China.
(4)College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310032, 
PR China. Electronic address: lutao@zjut.edu.cn.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are harmful and widespread pollutants in 
the environment, posing an ecological threat. However, exploring the influence 
of PAHs on environmental bacterial communities in different habitats (soil, 
water, and sediment) remains a major challenge. We collected and reanalyzed 1924 
16S rRNA sequencing samples to determine the effects of PAHs on bacterial 
communities in different habitats and used machine learning to predict potential 
degrading bacteria. It was found that PAHs had substantial effects on the 
bacterial community, and that the bacterial community structure changed 
differently in different habitats. PAH contamination decreased the relative 
abundance of Proteobacteria in the soil (16.3 %) and sediment (10.1 %), whereas 
the abundance of Proteobacteria in water increased by 20.2 %. Among the tested 
models, the random forest model best identified the effects of PAHs on bacterial 
groups, with an accuracy of 99.51 % for soil, 97.72 % for sediment, and 100 % 
for water at the genus level. Using the random forest model, we identified 70 
biomarkers that respond to PAHs, including potentially degrading microorganisms 
such as A4b, Bacillus, Flavobacterium and Polynucleobacter. Furthermore, PAH 
contamination did not significantly alter the functions of bacterial communities 
in the environment. This study provides a candidate strain set for future 
screening of PAH-degrading bacteria and contributes to the study of the 
adaptability of engineered PAH-degrading bacteria to the environment.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177032
PMID: 39447913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Chemosphere. 2024 Nov;367:143612. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.143612. Epub
 2024 Oct 22.

Biomonitoring emerging hazards of pharmaceuticals in river water using gut 
microbiome and behavioural Daphnia magna responses.

Moro H(1), Vaya R(1), Casado M(1), Piña B(1), Domínguez-García P(2), 
Gómez-Canela C(2), Barata C(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Environmental Assessment and Water Research (IDAEA-CSIC), Jordi 
Girona 18, 08034, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Department of Analytical and Applied Chemistry, School of Engineering, 
Institut Químic de Sarrià-Universitat Ramon Llull, Via Augusta 390, 08017, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Institute for Environmental Assessment and Water Research (IDAEA-CSIC), Jordi 
Girona 18, 08034, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: cbmqam@cid.csic.es.

A cost-effective Daphnia magna testing framework was applied to identify 
emerging hazards such as neurological and cardiovascular defects as well as 
antibiotic resistant genes (ARGs), related to pharmaceuticals present in waste 
water treated (WWTP) effluent discharged into rivers. D. magna juveniles were 
exposed during 48 h to water samples from three rivers in the vicinity of 
Barcelona (NE Spain), Besós, Llobregat and Onyar, upstream and downstream of 
WWTP discharging points. The analyses included measuring levels of 80 
pharmaceutical residues in water samples by HPLC-MS, determination of the loads 
of different clinically relevant antibiotic resistant genes (ARGs) in both water 
samples and exposed animals, and assessment of toxic effects in feeding, 
heartbeat responses, and behavioural indicators. ARG prevalence in water, but 
not in gut microbiomes, was associated with the presence of bactericides in 
water. These results suggest that their levels were high enough to put a 
selective pressure over river microbial populations, but that Daphnia guts were 
not easily populated by environmental bacteria. Toxic effects were found in 
20-43% of water samples, depending on the river, and related to water quality 
parameters and to pollutant levels. For example, heartbeats were correlated with 
salinity, whereas feeding impairment did so with high loads of suspended solids. 
In contrast, behavioural alterations were associated to the concentration of 
neuroactive chemicals. Accordingly, we hypothesize that measured neuroactive 
chemicals have caused the observed effects. If this also applies to local 
invertebrate populations, the environmental consequences may be severe and 
unpredictable.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.143612
PMID: 39447773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 1;286:117214. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117214. Epub 2024 Oct 23.

Bioaccumulation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and microbiota dynamics 
across developmental stages of the Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus 
exposed to urban pollutants.

Antonelli P(1), Grizard S(1), Tran FH(1), Lejon D(2), Bellemain A(2), Van(1), 
Mavingui P(3), Roiz D(4), Simard F(4), Martin E(1), Abrouk D(1), Vigneron A(1), 
Minard G(1), Valiente Moro C(5).

Author information:
(1)Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Laboratoire d'Ecologie Microbienne, UMR 
CNRS 5557, UMR INRAE 1418, VetAgrop Sup, 69622 Villeurbanne, France.
(2)Rovaltain Research Company, Valence, France.
(3)UMR PIMIT, Processus Infectieux en Milieu Insulaire Tropical, CNRS 9192, 
INSERM U1187, IRD 249, Université de La Réunion, Sainte-Clotilde, La 
Réunion, France.
(4)MIVEGEC, Univ. Montpellier, IRD, CNRS, Montpellier, France.
(5)Universite Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Laboratoire d'Ecologie Microbienne, UMR 
CNRS 5557, UMR INRAE 1418, VetAgrop Sup, 69622 Villeurbanne, France. Electronic 
address: claire.valiente-moro@univ-lyon1.fr.

Aedes albopictus mosquitoes face numerous anthropic stressors in urban areas. 
These xenobiotics not only impact mosquito physiology but also shape the 
composition of their microbiota, which play important roles in host 
physiological traits. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are ubiquitous 
environmental pollutants known to alter mosquito metabolism, but no studies have 
yet investigated their impact on microbiota. Using a bespoke indoor mesocosm 
tailored for Ae. albopictus mosquitoes, we investigated the dynamics of 
bacterial communities in both mosquitoes and their larval breeding sites 
following chronic exposure to a cocktail of PAHs consisting of benzo[a]pyrene, 
benz[a]anthracene, chrysene and benzo[b]fluoranthene. Our findings showed that 
PAHs have a stage-specific effect on mosquito microbiota, with a higher impact 
in larvae than in adults, contributing to 12.5 % and 4.5 % of the PAHs-induced 
variations, respectively. The presence of PAHs in the treated mesocosm led to 
the enrichment of bacterial families and genera known for their ability to 
catabolize PAHs, such as Comamonadaceae and Raoultella (increasing from 19 % to 
30 % and from 1.2 % to 5.6 %, respectively). Conversely, prevalent taxa found in 
mosquito microbiota like Wolbachia and Cedecea exhibited a reduction (decreasing 
from 4 % to 0.8 % and from 12.8 % to 6.4 %, respectively). This reduction could 
be attributed to the competitive advantage gained by PAH-degrading taxa, or it 
could reflect a direct sensitivity to PAH exposure. Overall, this indicates a 
shift in microbiota composition favoring bacteria that can thrive in a 
PAH-contaminated environment. PAHs persisted in the water of breeding sites only 
the first 45 days of the experiment. Benzo[a]pyrene and benzo[b]fluoranthene 
were more susceptible to bioaccumulation in larval tissues over time. Overall, 
this study enhances our understanding of the impact of pollution on mosquitoes 
and could facilitate future research on the importance of symbiosis in 
urban-dwelling insect disease vectors. Given the recent advancements in the 
generation of axenic (microbe-free) and gnotobiotic (mosquitoes with a defined 
or specific microbiota) mosquitoes, further studies are needed to explore how 
changes in microbiota composition could influence mosquito responses to 
pollution, particularly in relation to host fitness, immunity, and vector 
competence.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117214
PMID: 39447296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:177079. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177079.  Epub 2024 Oct 21.

Effects of cyanotoxins on nitrogen transformation in aquaculture systems with 
microplastics coexposure: Adsorption behavior, bacterial communities and 
functional genes.

Cao L(1), Wu H(2), Wu X(3), Feng Y(1), Ye W(1), Fan J(1), Yang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Resources Conservation and Development Technology 
Research, College of Life Sciences, Huzhou University, Huzhou City, Zhejiang 
Province 313000, China.
(2)Huzhou Ecological and Environmental Monitoring Center of Zhejiang Province, 
Huzhou City, Zhejiang Province 313000, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Aquatic Resources Conservation and Development Technology 
Research, College of Life Sciences, Huzhou University, Huzhou City, Zhejiang 
Province 313000, China. Electronic address: 01370@zjhu.edu.cn.

Microcystin-LR (MC-LR) and microplastics (MPs) have attracted increasing 
attention as important new pollutants in freshwater fishery environments. 
However, there are few reports on the effects of long-term combined MC-LR and 
MPs pollution on nitrogen transformation and microbial communities in 
aquaculture ponds, and the resulting risks have yet to be determined. Therefore, 
in this study, traditional refractory MPs (polystyrene, PS), biodegradable MPs 
(polylactic acid, PLA) and MC-LR, which are common in freshwater fishery 
environments in China, were selected as pollutants to construct a microcosm that 
simulates freshwater aquaculture ponds. MC-LR coexposure to PS and PLA was 
tested to reveal the effects of these pollutants on nitrogen transformation and 
microbial communities in aquaculture ponds, as well as to elucidate the 
potential risks posed by traditional refractory MPs and biodegradable MPs to 
freshwater aquaculture ecosystems. The results revealed that the MPs had a 
relatively high adsorption rate for MC-LR and that PS presented a relatively 
high adsorption capacity, whereas PLA presented a relatively high desorption 
capacity. Single or combined MPs and MC-LR pollution disrupted the normal 
nitrogen cycle in the aquaculture system, causing an overall loss of nitrogen in 
the water, and denitrification and nitrogen fixation in the water were inhibited 
to a certain extent through the inhibition of nitrogen cycle-related functional 
genes, with the PS + MC-LR group having the greatest inhibitory effect. In 
addition, compared with single-pollutant exposure, combined exposure to MC-LR 
and MPs had a greater effect on the microbial community composition. Analysis of 
the integrated biomarker response (IBR) index revealed that the risk of combined 
exposure to MC-LR and PS was greater than that of single exposure, so this 
phenomenon merits further attention.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.177079
PMID: 39442720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2024 Oct;16(5):e70006. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.70006.

Viability discrimination of bacterial microbiomes in home kitchen dish sponges 
using propidium monoazide treatment.

Carstens CK(1), Salazar JK(2), Sharma S(3), Chan W(3), Darkoh C(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Texas Health Science Center School of Public Health, Houston, 
Texas, USA.
(2)Division of Food Processing Science and Technology, U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration, Bedford Park, Illinois, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, University of Texas Health 
Science Center School of Public Health, Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Program, MD Anderson Cancer Center 
University of Texas Health Science Center Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, Houston, Texas, USA.

Dish sponges are known to support the proliferation of human bacterial 
pathogens, yet they are commonly used by consumers. Exposure to foodborne 
pathogens via sponge use may lead to illness, a serious concern among 
susceptible populations. The extent of exposure risks from sponge use has been 
limited by constraints associated with culture-independent or dependent methods 
for bacterial community characterization. Therefore, five used dish sponges were 
characterized to evaluate the presence of viable bacterial foodborne pathogens 
using the novel application of propidium monoazide (PMA) treatment and targeted 
16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Select pathogen viability was confirmed using 
targeted selective enrichment. The taxonomic abundance profiles of total and 
viable sponge microbiomes did not vary significantly. The numbers of unique 
bacterial species (p = 0.0465) and foodborne pathogens (p = 0.0102) identified 
were significantly lower in viable sponge microbiomes. Twenty unique bacterial 
foodborne pathogens were detected across total and viable sponge microbiomes, 
and three to six viable foodborne pathogens were identified in each sponge. 
Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus were identified in each viable sponge 
microbiome, and viable E. coli were recovered from two sponges via targeted 
selective enrichment. These findings suggest that sponge-associated bacterial 
communities are primarily viable and contain multiple viable bacterial foodborne 
pathogens.

© 2024 The Author(s). Environmental Microbiology Reports published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.70006
PMCID: PMC11497490
PMID: 39440931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

1. J Agromedicine. 2024 Oct 23:1-11. doi: 10.1080/1059924X.2024.2416425. Online 
ahead of print.

Hypertonic Saline Nasal Rinse Intervention: Immunomodulatory Effects in Dairy 
Workers.

Erlandson G(1), Magzamen S(1)(2), Sharp JL(3)(4), Seidel J(1), Poole JA(5), 
Bradford M(1), Schaeffer JW(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Radiological Health Sciences, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Colorado School of Public Health, Aurora, CO, 
USA.
(3)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(4)Sharp Analytics LLC, Fort Collins, CO, USA.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 
Omaha, NE, USA.
(6)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Colorado School of 
Public Health, Denver, CO, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Increased risk of occupational exposure to bioaerosols has long been 
recognized in livestock operations including dairy facilities. Spanning the 
inhalable fraction (0-100 μm), dairy bioaerosols comprise a wide variety of 
inflammatory components that deposit in the nasopharyngeal region. The resultant 
inflammatory response from bioaerosol exposure is likely driving the increased 
prevalence of respiratory disease observed in dairy workers. It is also thought 
the microbiome of the upper respiratory system may help mediate this 
inflammation. We investigated the viability of a low-cost hypertonic saline 
nasal rinse intervention in modulating inflammatory responses in bioaerosol 
exposed dairy workers and its impact on microbial diversity.
METHODS: Pre- and post-shift nasal rinses were administered and collected 
alongside full shift inhalable personal breathing zone (PBZ) samples for each 
participant for up to 5 consecutive days. Treatment group participants (n = 23) 
received hypertonic saline rinses while control group participants (n = 22) 
received normotonic saline rinses. Particulate matter (PM) and endotoxin 
concentrations were quantified from PBZ samples using gravimetric and enzymatic 
analytical methods, respectively. Pre- and post-shift rinses were analyzed for 
pro- and anti-inflammatory markers and microbial diversity using a multiplex 
assay and 16S rRNA sequencing, respectively.
RESULTS: PM and endotoxin concentrations were comparable between groups 
indicating similar exposures. Post-shift pro-inflammatory markers were 
significantly higher than pre-shift for IL-13 (p = .047), IL-1β (p < .001), IL-6 
(p < .001), IL-8 (p < .001), and TNF-α (p = .024). There was no evidence of a 
difference in log concentrations between intervention group or day among any of 
the measured inflammatory markers. Anti-inflammatory IL-10 concentrations 
increased across the 5 sample days, independent of treatment group suggesting 
tonicity may not be driving the change. However, this result was not significant 
(p = .217). Nasal microbiome alpha (within sample) and beta (between sample) 
diversity metrics did not differ significantly between group or day 
demonstrating no adverse washout intervention effects.
CONCLUSION: This study provided encouraging results that warrant future research 
to further evaluate saline nasal rinses as a workplace intervention.

DOI: 10.1080/1059924X.2024.2416425
PMID: 39440411

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:176829. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176829.  Epub 2024 Oct 20.

Promotion of antibiotic-resistant genes dissemination by the micro/nanoplastics 
in the gut of snail Achatina fulica.

Da YM(1), Yang XR(2), Li MJ(1), Li SS(1), Gao ZP(1), Zhang Y(1), Su JQ(2), Zhou 
GW(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Resources and Environmental Engineering, Anhui University, Hefei 
230601, China.
(2)Key Lab of Urban Environment and Health, Institute of Urban Environment, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, China.
(3)School of Resources and Environmental Engineering, Anhui University, Hefei 
230601, China. Electronic address: gwzhou@ahu.edu.cn.

Terrestrial animal intestines are hotspots for the enrichment of micro/nano 
plastics (M/NPs) and antibiotic-resistant genes (ARGs). However, little is known 
about the further impact of M/NPs on the spread of ARGs in animal guts. This 
study investigates the role of M/NPs (polystyrene) with varying particle sizes 
(0.082, 42, and 182 μm), concentrations (10 and 100 mg/L), and exposure 
durations (4 and 16 days) in the ARGs dissemination via conjugation in the 
edible snail (Achatina fulica) gut. Combination of qPCR with 16S rRNA-based 
sequencing, we found that PS exposure caused intestinal cell impairment and 
shifts in the gut microbial community of snails. Conjugation rate increased with 
PS particle sizes in the snail gut. After 4 days of exposure, significantly 
higher conjugation rates were observed in the gut exposed to 100 mg/L PS 
compared to 10 mg/L, however, this trend reversed after 16 days. Consistently, 
the abundances of conjugation relevant genes trfA and trbB shared similar trends 
to the conjugation ratios in the snail gut after PS exposure. Transconjugant 
diversity was much lower in 10 mg/L PS groups than in 100 mg/L PS treatments. 
Therefore, this study suggests that the presence of M/NPs would complicate 
management of ARG spread. The selection pressure exerted by M/NPs may sustain or 
even amplify the spread of ARGs in the gut of terrestrial animals even in the 
absence of antibiotics. It highlights the necessity of avoiding M/NPs intake as 
a part of comprehensive strategy for cubing ARG dissemination in the gut of 
animals.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176829
PMID: 39437930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Immunol Rev. 2024 Oct 22. doi: 10.1111/imr.13411. Online ahead of print.

Antibodies in breast milk: Pro-bodies designed for healthy newborn development.

Verhasselt V(1)(2), Tellier J(3), Carsetti R(4), Tepekule B(5).

Author information:
(1)Larsson-Rosenquist Foundation Centre for Immunology and Breastfeeding, School 
of Medicine and of BioMedical Sciences, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(2)Immunology and Breastfeeding team, The Kids Research Institute Australia, 
Perth, Western Australia, Australia.
(3)Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Parkville, Victoria, 
Australia.
(4)B-cell Lab, Bambino Gesù Children Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(5)Dept of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
New Jersey, USA.

This manuscript sheds light on the impact of maternal breast milk antibodies on 
infant health. Milk antibodies prepare and protect the newborn against 
environmental exposure, guide and regulate the offspring's immune system, and 
promote transgenerational adaptation of the immune system to its environment. 
While the transfer of IgG across the placenta ceases at birth, milk antibodies 
are continuously replenished by the maternal immune system. They reflect the 
mother's real-time adaptation to the environment to which the infant is exposed. 
They cover the infant's upper respiratory and digestive mucosa and are perfectly 
positioned to control responses to environmental antigens and might also reach 
their circulation. Maternal antibodies in breast milk play a key role in the 
immune defense of the developing child, with a major impact on infectious 
disease susceptibility in both HIC and LMIC. They also influence the development 
of another major health burden in children-allergies. Finally, emerging evidence 
shows that milk antibodies also actively shape immune development. Much of this 
is likely to be mediated by their effect on the seeding, composition and 
function of the microbiota, but not only. Further understanding of the bridge 
that maternal antibodies provide between the child and its environment should 
enable the best interventions to promote healthy development.

© 2024 The Author(s). Immunological Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.13411
PMID: 39435770

1. PeerJ. 2024 Oct 18;12:e18277. doi: 10.7717/peerj.18277. eCollection 2024.

Insights into water insecurity in Indigenous communities in Canada: assessing 
microbial risks and innovative solutions, a multifaceted review.

Zambrano-Alvarado JI(1), Uyaguari-Diaz MI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.

Canada is considered a freshwater-rich country, despite this, several Indigenous 
reserves struggle with household water insecurity. In fact, some of these 
communities have lacked access to safe water for almost 30 years. Water quality 
in Canadian Indigenous reserves is influenced by several factors including 
source water quality, drinking water treatments applied, water distribution 
systems, and water storage tanks when piped water is unavailable. The objective 
of this multifaceted review is to spot the challenges and consequences of 
inadequate drinking water systems (DWS) and the available technical and 
microbiological alternatives to address water sanitation coverage in Indigenous 
reserves of Canada, North America (also known as Turtle Island). A comprehensive 
literature review was conducted using national web portals from both federal and 
provincial governments, as well as academic databases to identify the following 
topics: The status of water insecurity in Indigenous communities across Canada; 
Microbiological, chemical, and natural causes contributing to water insecurity; 
Limitations of applying urban-style drinking water systems in Indigenous 
reserves in Canada and the management of DWS for Indigenous communities in other 
high-income countries; and the importance of determining the microbiome 
inhabiting drinking water systems along with the cutting-edge technology 
available for its analysis. A total of 169 scientific articles matched the 
inclusion criteria. The major themes discussed include: The status of water 
insecurity and water advisories in Canada; the risks of pathogenic 
microorganisms (i.e., Escherichia coli and total coliforms) and other chemicals 
(i.e., disinfection by-products) found in water storage tanks; the most common 
technologies available for water treatment including coagulation, high- and 
low-pressure membrane filtration procedures, ozone, ion exchange, and biological 
ion exchange and their limitations when applying them in remote Indigenous 
communities. Furthermore, we reviewed the benefits and drawbacks that high 
throughput tools such as metagenomics (the study of genomes of microbial 
communities), culturomics (a high-efficiency culture approach), and 
microfluidics devices (microminiaturized instruments) and what they could 
represent for water monitoring in Indigenous reserves. This multifaceted review 
demonstrates that water insecurity in Canada is a reflection of the 
institutional structures of marginalization that persist in the country and 
other parts of Turtle Island. DWS on Indigenous reserves are in urgent need of 
upgrades. Source water protection, and drinking water monitoring plus a 
comprehensive design of culturally adapted, and sustainable water services are 
required. Collaborative efforts between First Nations authorities and federal, 
provincial, and territorial governments are imperative to ensure equitable 
access to safe drinking water in Indigenous reserves.

©2024 Zambrano-Alvarado and Uyaguari-Diaz.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.18277
PMCID: PMC11493031
PMID: 39434791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.

1. BMC Genomics. 2024 Oct 21;25(1):984. doi: 10.1186/s12864-024-10903-0.

Multi-omics profiling reveals the molecular mechanisms of H(2)O(2)-induced 
detrimental effects on Thamnaconus septentrionalis.

Li C(1)(2), Zhang X(3), Zhao L(4)(5)(6), Liu S(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Observation and Research Station of Bohai Strait Eco-Corridor, Ministry of 
Natural Resources, First Institute of Oceanography, Qingdao, 266061, China.
(2)Laboratory for Marine Ecology and Environmental Science, Qingdao Marine 
Science and Technology Center, Qingdao, 266237, China.
(3)School of Advanced Manufacturing, Fuzhou University, Jinjiang, China.
(4)Observation and Research Station of Bohai Strait Eco-Corridor, Ministry of 
Natural Resources, First Institute of Oceanography, Qingdao, 266061, China. 
zhaolinlin@fio.org.cn.
(5)Laboratory for Marine Ecology and Environmental Science, Qingdao Marine 
Science and Technology Center, Qingdao, 266237, China. zhaolinlin@fio.org.cn.
(6)School of Advanced Manufacturing, Fuzhou University, Jinjiang, China. 
zhaolinlin@fio.org.cn.
(7)Observation and Research Station of Bohai Strait Eco-Corridor, Ministry of 
Natural Resources, First Institute of Oceanography, Qingdao, 266061, China. 
shliu@fio.org.cn.
(8)Laboratory for Marine Ecology and Environmental Science, Qingdao Marine 
Science and Technology Center, Qingdao, 266237, China. shliu@fio.org.cn.
(9)School of Advanced Manufacturing, Fuzhou University, Jinjiang, China. 
shliu@fio.org.cn.

BACKGROUND: Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), a novel water treatment agent, can be used 
for disinfection, water quality adjustment, and disease prevention, while 
excessive H2O2 can injure farm animals, even leading to death. Hydrogen peroxide 
is a recommended disinfectant and bactericide for treating gill diseases and 
vibriosis in the greenfin horse-faced filefish Thamnaconus septentrionalis. 
However, its cumulative effect, toxic molecular mechanism and relevant signal 
transduction/metabolic networks in marine fishes are largely unknown.
RESULTS: We employed a multi-omics approach to investigate the detrimental 
effects of 50 mg/L H2O2 exposure (2 h/d) on filefish for 2 d, 4 d, and 6 d. 
Transcriptome sequencing showed that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were 
mainly classified into functions such as signal transduction, nervous system, 
liver and bile acid metabolism, energy metabolism, cell adhesion and 
communication, inflammation and immune response. Metabolomic analysis found that 
the significantly changed metabolites (SCMs) were involved in phenylalanine 
metabolism, inflammatory mediator regulation, linoleic acid metabolism, and 
necroptosis. The main SCMs were cholic acid, carnitine C12:1, dimethylmalonic 
acid, glutamic acid, L-lactic acid, shikimic acid, 2-methylsuccinic acid, and 
others. Moreover, H2O2-induced oxidative stress also disturbs the balance of the 
gut microbiota, altering the microbial composition and affecting digestive 
processes.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrated multiomics analysis revealed that H2O2-induced 
detrimental impacts include mucosal damage, inflammatory and immune responses, 
altered energy metabolism, and gut microbiota disorders. These findings offer 
novel insights into the harmful effects and signal transduction/metabolic 
pathways triggered by H2O2 exposure in marine fishes.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-024-10903-0
PMCID: PMC11492787
PMID: 39434036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. iScience. 2024 Sep 19;27(10):110990. doi: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110990. 
eCollection 2024 Oct 18.

Hazardous volcanic CO(2) diffuse degassing areas - A systematic review on 
environmental impacts, health, and mitigation strategies.

Viveiros F(1)(2), Silva C(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigação em Vulcanologia e Avaliação de Riscos (IVAR), 
Universidade dos Açores, Rua Mãe de Deus, 9500-801 Ponta Delgada, Azores, 
Portugal.
(2)Faculdade de Ciências e Tecnologia (FCT), Universidade dos Açores, Rua Mãe de 
Deus, 9500-801 Ponta Delgada, Azores, Portugal.
(3)Centro de Informação e Vigilância Sismovulcânica dos Açores (CIVISA), 
Universidade dos Açores, Rua Mãe de Deus, 9500-801 Ponta Delgada, Azores, 
Portugal.

Volcanic CO2 diffuse degassing can impact infrastructure, soils, vegetation, 
microbiota, fauna, and human health. These impacts include acidification of 
soils, leading to sparse or absent vegetation and changes in microbiota types. 
Most of the study sites in this review are areas of quiescent volcanism, where 
soil CO2 emissions is a permanent and silent hazard. Lethal indoor and outdoor 
CO2 concentrations measured in different regions of the world (Azores, Aeolian 
and Canary Islands, Colli Albani, Methana, Massif Central, Mammoth Mountain, 
Nyiragongo, Nyamulagira, and Rotorua volcanoes) are associated with the asphyxia 
and death of humans and other fauna (e.g., birds, reptiles, cows, elephants, and 
dogs). To address the hazard posed by volcanic CO2 diffuse degassing, we suggest 
mitigation measures including mandatory CO2 hazard maps for land-use planning, 
"gas-resistant" construction codes, ventilation mechanisms, monitoring and early 
warning systems, along with educational campaigns to reduce the gas exposure 
risks.

© 2024 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.isci.2024.110990
PMCID: PMC11490718
PMID: 39429787

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Environ Pollut. 2024 Dec 15;363(Pt 1):125165. doi:
10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125165.  Epub 2024 Oct 19.

The whole life journey and destination of microplastics: A review.

You T(1), Feng X(1), Xu H(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Resources, Nanchang University, 235 
Nanjing East Road, Nanchang, 330047, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Resources, Nanchang University, 235 
Nanjing East Road, Nanchang, 330047, China. Electronic address: kidyxu@163.com.

Recent reports indicate that ubiquitous microplastics (MPs) in the environment 
can infiltrate the human body, posing significant health risks and garnering 
widespread attention. However, public understanding of the intricate processes 
through which microplastics are transferred to humans remains limited. 
Consequently, developing effective strategies to mitigate the escalating issue 
of MPs pollution and safeguard human health is still challenging. In this 
review, we elucidated the sources and dynamic migration pathways of MPs, 
examined its complex interactions with other pollutants, and identified primary 
routes of human exposure. Subsequently, the events and alterations of gut 
microbiota, gut microbiota metabolism, and intestinal barrier after MPs enter 
the gut of organisms are unclosed. Additionally, it highlighted the ease with 
which MPs translocate from the intestine to other organs along with their 
biological toxicities. Finally, we also emphasized the knowledge gaps in the 
current research field and proposes future research directions. This review aims 
to enhance public awareness regarding microplastic pollution and provide 
valuable references for forthcoming research endeavors as well as policy 
formulation related to this pressing issue.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2024.125165
PMID: 39427952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 1;286:117213. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117213. Epub 2024 Oct 19.

Chronic dietary deoxynivalenol exposure interferes the intestinal microbial 
community structure and antibiotic resistome in laying hens.

Kuai Y(1), Yao Z(1), Pang T(1), Wang L(1), Gong X(1), Cheng Y(1), Liu X(1), Fu 
Q(1), Wang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science, College of Animal Science 
and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, Hubei 430070, China.
(2)Department of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science, College of Animal Science 
and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, Hubei 430070, China; 
Shenzhen Institute of Nutrition and Health, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, Hubei 430070, China; Shenzhen Branch, Guangdong Laboratory for Lingnan 
Modern Agriculture, Genome Analysis Laboratory of the Ministry of Agriculture, 
Agricultural Genomics Institute at Shenzhen, Chinese Academy of Agricultural 
Sciences, Shenzhen, Guangdong 518120, China. Electronic address: 
wangshuai@mail.hzau.edu.cn.

Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are critical emerging pollutants that have 
attracted considerable attention. Deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of the most 
prevalent mycotoxins in cereal crops worldwide, arising severe health hazards to 
both humans and animals. Even if numerous researches argue in favor of a 
notorious influence of DON on the gut, the effects of dietary DON exposure on 
the ARG profile in poultry intestine remain obscure. In this study, two separate 
feeding experiments using Jing Tint 6 laying hens exposed to 4.5 or 9.0 mg/kg 
DON were performed to explore the impact of dietary DON exposure on the 
microbial community structure and the profiles of ARGs in the intestine via 16S 
rDNA sequencing and metagenomics sequencing, respectively. In addition, growth 
performance and intestinal barrier function were also determined to assess the 
feasibility of using DON-contaminated feedstuffs inappropriate for pigs' 
consumption in laying hens. Chronic ingestion of DON at 9.0 mg/kg did not alter 
zootechnical parameters. However, histomorphological impairments were observed 
in liver and jejunum. Additionally, metagenomic sequencing revealed that dietary 
DON exposure at 9.0 mg/kg level dramatically changed the gut microbial structure 
and shifted the ARG profile. The abundance of tetracycline ARG subtype in the 
layer cecum was decreased, whereas the abundance of vancomycin ARG subtype was 
increased upon DON exposure. Co-occurrence network analysis identified that 
Prevotella was the major ARG host in the intestine of laying hens. In summary, 
our findings demonstrated that DON-contaminated feedstuffs inappropriate for 
pigs' consumption should be prudently used in hen production, and shed new light 
on the interactions between mycotoxins and ARGs in the poultry intestine.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117213
PMID: 39427542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2024 Nov 1;286:117219. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117219. Epub 2024 Oct 19.

Effects of different microplastic types on soil physicochemical properties, 
enzyme activities, and bacterial communities.

Guo W(1), Ye Z(2), Zhao Y(3), Lu Q(2), Shen B(2), Zhang X(2), Zhang W(4), Chen 
SC(5), Li Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources and Environmental Monitoring 
and Sustainable Management and Utilization, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China; College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Fujian Normal 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350007, China; Medical Plant Exploitation and 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China.
(2)School of Resources and Chemical Engineering, Sanming University, Sanming 
City, Fujian, China.
(3)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources and Environmental Monitoring 
and Sustainable Management and Utilization, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China; School of Resources and Chemical Engineering, Sanming 
University, Sanming City, Fujian, China.
(4)College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Fujian Normal 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350007, China.
(5)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources and Environmental Monitoring 
and Sustainable Management and Utilization, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China; College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Fujian Normal 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350007, China; School of Resources and Chemical 
Engineering, Sanming University, Sanming City, Fujian, China.
(6)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Resources and Environmental Monitoring 
and Sustainable Management and Utilization, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China; College of Environmental and Resource Sciences, Fujian Normal 
University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350007, China; Medical Plant Exploitation and 
Utilization Engineering Research Center, Sanming University, Sanming, Fujian 
365004, China. Electronic address: lijiang413508@126.com.

Global concern continues to mount regarding the accumulation of microplastics 
(MPs) in soil. However, little is known about how various types of MPs influence 
the properties of soil ecosystems. Here, we evaluated the effects of six 
different types of MPs, including low-density polyethylene (LDPE), polyamide 
(PA), polystyrene (PS), polyhydroxy-alkanoates (PHA), polybutadiene styrene 
(PBS), and polylactide (PLA), on soil physicochemical properties, enzyme 
activities, and microbial communities. At the end of a 230-day soil incubation, 
we observed significant changes in soil moisture content, soil organic carbon, 
pH, NH4+-N, NO3--N, and available phosphorus. The addition of MPs had a 
significant influence on the activities of soil β-glucosidase, acid phosphatase, 
urease, and fluorescein diacetate hydrolase, with effects varying with MP type. 
Results of 16S rRNA gene high throughput sequencing showed that MP exposure had 
little effect on soil microbial alpha diversity, but that PHA contamination 
significantly reduced ACE, Chao1, and Shannon index values. MP contamination 
also altered soil microbial community composition. In particular, the relative 
abundance of Firmicutes increased significantly while the relative abundance of 
Actinobacteriota, Proteobacteria (especially the nitrogen-fixing rhizobia), and 
Acidobacteriota decreased following exposure to PHA. Redundancy analysis showed 
that acid phosphatase and pH were the two main environmental factors affecting 
bacterial community structure at the phylum and order levels. Furthermore, 
Tax4Fun2 analysis found that MP treatment disrupted fundamental bacterial 
metabolic pathways. Our findings indicate that different types of MPs can affect 
soil fertility, bacterial community structure, and function in various ways, and 
highlight that biodegradable MPs may alter soil bacterial communities more than 
conventional MPs.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2024.117219
PMID: 39427539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Aquat Toxicol. 2024 Nov;276:107122. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2024.107122. Epub 
2024 Oct 11.

Detrimental effects of glyphosate on muscle metabolism in grass carp 
(Ctenopharyngodon idellus).

Yan B(1), Luo L(2), Zhang Y(3), Men J(4), Guo Y(3), Wu S(5), Han J(6), Zhou 
B(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Hubei University of Science and Technology, 
Xianning 437100, PR China; Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academic of 
Sciences, Wuhan 430072, PR China.
(2)Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academic of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, PR 
China; College of Fisheries and Life Science, Dalian Ocean University, Dalian 
116023, PR China.
(3)Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academic of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, PR 
China.
(4)The Analysis and Testing Center of Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, PR China.
(5)Nanjing Institute of Environmental Sciences, Ministry of Ecology and 
Environment, Nanjing 210042, PR China. Electronic address: wsm@nies.org.
(6)Institute of Hydrobiology, Chinese Academic of Sciences, Wuhan 430072, PR 
China. Electronic address: hanjian@ihb.ac.cn.

Glyphosate, a commonly used herbicide, has been associated with environmental 
pollution and potential health risks to aquatic organisms. This study 
investigated the effects of glyphosate on the muscle metabolism of grass carp 
(Ctenopharyngodon idellus) following exposure to environmentally relevant 
concentrations. Over a 14-day exposure period to varying glyphosate levels, 
significant disruptions were observed in antioxidant capacity and muscle health. 
These disruptions were evidenced by reductions in total antioxidant capacity 
(T-AOC), increases in malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, and decreases in activities 
of glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) and catalase (CAT). Furthermore, exposure to 
glyphosate resulted in a reduction of vitamin E content and an elevation of 
hormonal levels, suggesting the potential for endocrine disruption. Metabolomics 
analysis identified 605 distinct metabolites, with notable alterations in amino 
acid, carbohydrate, and nucleotide metabolism pathways. Specifically, arginine 
and glutathione metabolisms were severely impacted, with decreases in key amino 
acids such as glycine and glutathione at higher glyphosate concentrations. 
Nucleotide metabolism, particularly purine synthesis, was also significantly 
affected, with reduced levels of deoxyguanosine and other purine-related 
compounds. The study further investigated the origins of these differential 
metabolites using the MetOrigin platform, suggesting a potential involvement of 
the intestinal microbiota in the metabolic response to glyphosate. These 
findings highlight the multifaceted adverse effects of glyphosate on fish 
muscle, including oxidative stress and metabolic dysregulation, which may 
contribute to diminished muscle quality and health risks for aquatic organisms.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2024.107122
PMID: 39426364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.The author is an Editorial Board Member/Editor-in-Chief/Associate 
Editor/Guest Editor for [Aquatic Toxicology] and was not involved in the 
editorial review or the decision to publish this article.The authors Jian Han 
and Bingsheng Zhou are Editorial Board Members for Aquatic Toxicology and were 
not involved in the editorial review or the decision to publish this article.

1. Nutr Diabetes. 2024 Oct 19;14(1):87. doi: 10.1038/s41387-024-00346-7.

Gestational diabetes exacerbates intrauterine microbial exposure induced 
intestinal microbiota change in offspring contributing to increased immune 
response.

Liu J(#)(1)(2)(3), Chen Y(#)(2)(4), Laurent I(1)(2), Yang P(5), Xiao X(#)(6)(7), 
Li X(#)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)The Chongqing Key Laboratory of Translational Medicine in Major Metabolic 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Chongqing University Cancer Hospital, School 
of Medicine, Chongqing University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Nephrology, Chongqing Emergency Medical 
Center, Chongqing University Central Hospital, Chongqing, China.
(5)Yongchuan Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chongqing, China.
(6)Department of Endocrinology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing, China. 203679@cqmu.edu.cn.
(7)The Chongqing Key Laboratory of Translational Medicine in Major Metabolic 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China. 203679@cqmu.edu.cn.
(8)The Chongqing Key Laboratory of Translational Medicine in Major Metabolic 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China. Ariel_lee1983@icloud.com.
(9)Department of Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China. Ariel_lee1983@icloud.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: maternal health during pregnancy can affect the intestinal microbial 
community of offspring, but currently the impact of intrauterine environmental 
changes resulting from gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) on the microbiota of 
offspring as well as its interaction with the immune system remains unclear.
AIMS: to explore the impact of intrauterine microbial exposure during pregnancy 
of gestational diabetes mellitus on the development of neonate's intestinal 
microbiota and activation of immune responses.
METHODS: Levels of lipopolysaccharides in cord blood from GDM and expression of 
microbial recognition-related proteins in the placenta were measured. To 
evaluate embryonic intestinal colonization, pregnant mice with GDM were 
administered with labeled Escherichia coli or Lactobacillus. The intestinal 
colonization of pups was analyzed through 16S rRNA gene sequencing and labeled 
microbial culture. Additionally, memory T lymphocyte and dendritic cell 
co-culture experiments were conducted to elucidate the immune memory of 
intestinal microbes during the embryonic stages.
RESULT: Gestational diabetes mellitus led to elevated umbilical cord blood LPS 
level and increased GFP labeled Escherichia coli in the offspring's intestine 
after gestational microbial exposure. The mouse model of GDM exhibited increased 
immune markers including TLR4, TLR5, IL-22 and IL-23 in the placenta and a 
recall response from memory T cells in offspring's intestines, with similar 
observations found in human experiments. Furthermore, reduced intestinal 
microbiome diversity and an increased ratio of Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes was 
found in GDM progeny, with the stability of bacterial colonization been 
interfered.
CONCLUSIONS: Our investigation has revealed a noteworthy correlation between 
gestational diabetes and intrauterine microbial exposure, as well as alterations 
in the neonatal microbiota and activation of immune responses. These findings 
highlight the gestational diabetes's role on offspring's gut microbiota and 
immune system interactions with early-life pathogen exposure.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41387-024-00346-7
PMCID: PMC11489853
PMID: 39424815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 1;954:176519. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176519.  Epub 2024 Oct 17.

The potential mediating role of the gut microbiome and metabolites in the 
association between PFAS and kidney function in young adults: A proof-of-concept 
study.

Hampson HE(1), Li S(1), Walker DI(2), Wang H(1), Jia Q(1), Rock S(1), Costello 
E(1), Bjornstad P(3), Pyle L(4), Nelson J(5), Gilliland FD(1), Chen Z(1), Aung 
M(1), Chatzi L(1), Conti DV(1), Alderete TL(6), Goodrich JA(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Gangarosa Department of Environmental Health, Rollins School of Public 
Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)UW Medicine Diabetes Institute, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Section of Endocrinology, Department of Pediatrics, University 
of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA; Department of Biostatistics and 
Informatics, Colorado School of Public Health, Aurora, CO, USA.
(4)Section of Endocrinology, Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado 
School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA; Department of Biostatistics and 
Informatics, Colorado School of Public Health, Aurora, CO, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Environmental Health and Engineering, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg 
School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Population and Public Health Sciences, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
jagoodri@usc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects over 10 % of the global 
population and can lead to kidney failure and death. Exposure to per- and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) is associated with increased risk of CKD, yet 
studies examining the mechanisms linking PFAS and kidney function are lacking. 
In this exploratory study, we examined longitudinal associations of PFAS 
exposure with kidney function, and tested if associations were mediated by 
altered gut bacterial taxa or plasma metabolites using a multi-omics mediation 
analysis.
METHODS: Seventy-eight young adults from the Children's Health Study were 
included in this longitudinal cohort study. At baseline, seven plasma PFAS and 
untargeted plasma metabolomics were measured using liquid 
chromatography/mass-spectrometry. Baseline gut bacterial abundance was 
characterized using 16S rRNA sequencing and examined at the genus level. At 
follow-up, serum creatinine and cystatin-C concentrations were quantified to 
estimate glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). High-dimensional multi-omics 
analyses were conducted to assess the association between baseline PFAS exposure 
with follow-up eGFR, mediated by gut microbiome and circulating metabolite 
levels.
RESULTS: PFAS burden score, a variable developed to estimate exposure to 
chemical mixtures, was associated with kidney function. Each standard deviation 
increase in baseline PFAS burden score was associated with a 2.4 % lower eGFR at 
follow-up (95 % CI:[0.1 %,4.8 %]). Following high-dimensional mediation analyses 
with the microbiome and circulating metabolites, a joint component 
(characterized by reduced Lachnospiraceae and 17b-estradiol and increased 
succinate, retinoate and dodecanoic acid) and a metabolite component 
(characterized by increased hypotaurine and decreased D-pinitol and 
ureidopropionate) mediated 38 % and 50 % of the effect between PFAS burden score 
and eGFR, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our proof-of-concept analysis provides the first evidence that 
reduced short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria and anti-inflammatory 
metabolites may link PFAS exposure with impaired kidney function. This study 
raises the possibility of future targeted interventions that can alter gut 
microbiome or circulating metabolite profiles to prevent PFAS induced kidney 
damage.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176519
PMID: 39424468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. J Hazard Mater. 2024 Dec 5;480:136166. doi: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136166.
Epub  2024 Oct 13.

Antimicrobial resistance in plant endophytes associated with poultry-manure 
application revealed by selective culture and whole genome sequencing.

Tripathi A(1), Jaiswal A(1), Kumar D(2), Chavda P(2), Pandit R(2), Joshi M(2), 
Blake DP(3), Tomley FM(3), Joshi CG(2), Dubey SK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University (BHU), 
Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)Gujarat Biotechnology Research Centre (GBRC), Department of Science and 
Technology, Government of Gujarat, Gandhinagar, Gujarat 382011, India.
(3)Pathobiology and Population Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College, Hawkshead 
Lane, North Mymms, Hertfordshire, UK.
(4)Department of Botany, Institute of Science, Banaras Hindu University (BHU), 
Varanasi 221005, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic address: skdubey@bhu.ac.in.

Poultry manure is widely used as organic fertilizer in agriculture during the 
cultivation of crops, but the persistent high-level use of antibiotics in 
poultry production has raised concerns about the selection for reservoirs of 
antimicrobial resistance genes (ARGs). Previous studies have shown that the 
addition of poultry manure can increase the abundance of genes associated with 
resistance to tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, fluoroquinolones, sulfonamides, 
bacitracin, chloramphenicol, and macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin in soil and 
plants. Understanding the microbial populations that harbor these ARGs is 
important to identify microorganisms that could enter the human food chain. 
Here, we test the hypothesis that environmental exposure to poultry manure 
increases the occurrence of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in plant endophytes 
using selective culture, phenotypic Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing (AST), 
phylogenetic analysis, and whole genome sequencing (WGS). Endophytes from 
poultry manure treated Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench plant root and stem samples 
showed increased phenotypic and genotypic resistance against multiple 
antibiotics compared to untreated controls. Comparison of AMR 
phenotype-to-genotype relationships highlighted the detection of multi-drug 
resistant (MDR) plant endophytes, demonstrating the value of genomic 
surveillance for emerging drug-resistant pathogens. The increased occurrence of 
ARGs in poultry manure-exposed endophytes highlights the need for responsible 
antibiotic use in poultry and animal farming to reduce contamination of 
ecological niches and transgression into endophytic plant microbiome 
compartments. It also emphasizes the requirement for proper manure management 
practices and vigilance in monitoring and surveillance efforts to tackle the 
growing problem of antibiotic resistance and preserve the efficacy of 
antibiotics for human and veterinary medicine.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhazmat.2024.136166
PMID: 39423640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.

1. Chemosphere. 2024 Oct;366:143547. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.143547. Epub
 2024 Oct 16.

Life on both environment in semi-aquatic frogs: Impact of aquatic microplastic 
(MP) from MP enrichment to growth, immune function and physiological stress.

Park JK(1), Lee JE(1), Do Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Kongju National University, (32588) Room 
204, 56, Kongjudaehak-ro, Kongju-si, Gongju, 32588, Chungcheongnam-do, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Kongju National University, (32588) Room 
204, 56, Kongjudaehak-ro, Kongju-si, Gongju, 32588, Chungcheongnam-do, Republic 
of Korea. Electronic address: doy@kongju.ac.kr.

The pervasive distribution of microplastics (MPs) in aquatic ecosystems presents 
a significant threat to wildlife, with amphibians being particularly vulnerable 
due to their complex life cycles and ecological roles. This study investigates 
physiological and ecological impacts of aquatic MP exposure on juvenile 
black-spotted pond frogs (Pelophylax nigromaculatus), focusing on juvenile frog 
stage, history of life after metamorphosis. MP examinations in the intestine and 
body revealed accumulation primarily in the gastrointestinal tracts without 
evidence of systemic distribution. Experimental exposure to different 
concentrations of MPs demonstrated adverse effects on growth, physiological 
stress, and immune function. Notably, higher MP concentrations led to 
significant reductions in growth and innate immunity, indicative of compromised 
health. High concentrations of MPs were associated with elevated levels of 
corticosterone and antioxidant enzymes, indicating physiological stress. 
However, there was no evidence of extreme hormonal surges or imbalances in 
antioxidant enzyme activity, suggesting that amphibians were able to effectively 
cope with the levels of MPs used in the study. Changes in gastrointestinal 
morphology and fecal microbiota composition were observed, reflecting response 
of metabolic adaptation to MP exposure. At low concentrations of MPs, adaptive 
changes in digestive tract morphology and the maintenance of gut microbiota 
balance were observed, indicating that the frogs were able to manage the 
exposure below a certain threshold. In contrast, high concentrations of MPs had 
clear negative effects on amphibians, which could impact biodiversity and 
ecosystem stability. These findings also suggest that MPs may trigger adaptive 
responses at lower concentrations, while still posing significant environmental 
risks at higher levels.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2024.143547
PMID: 39419331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.

1. Sci Total Environ. 2024 Dec 10;955:176915. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176915.  Epub 2024 Oct 16.

Toxic metals in Amazonian soil modify the bacterial community associated with 
Diplopoda.

Santos-Silva L(1), Roque WF(1), de Moura JM(2), Mello IS(1), de Carvalho LAL(3), 
Pinheiro DG(3), Bouzan RS(4), Brescovit AD(4), de Andrade RLT(5), da Silva 
GF(6), Battirola LD(7), Soares MA(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil; Federal Institute of 
Education, Science and Technology of Mato Grosso (IFMT), Av. Ver. Juliano da 
Costa Marques, S/N - Bela Vista, 78050-560 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(3)Bioinformatics Laboratory, Department of Agricultural, Livestock and 
Environmental Biotechnology, São Paulo State University (UNESP), School of 
Agricultural and Veterinary Sciences, Jaboticabal, S/N - Vila Industrial, 
14884-900 São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Zoological Collections (LCZ), Butantã, Av. Vital Brazil, 1500, 
05503-900 São Paulo, Brazil.
(5)Interdisciplinary Chemical Research Laboratory (LIPEQ), Institute of Natural, 
Human and Social Sciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso, Av. das Figueiras, 
6.669, Aquarela das Artes, Sinop, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(6)Molecular Biology Laboratory, Embrapa Amazônia Ocidental, Highway AM 010 km 
29 Road Manau, Itacoatiara - AM, 69010-970 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil.
(7)Biological Collection of Southern Amazonia (ABAM), Institute of Natural, 
Human and Social Sciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. das 
Figueiras, 6.669, Aquarela das Artes, Sinop, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
(8)Laboratory of Biotechnology and Microbial Ecology (LABEM), Department of 
Biosciences, Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT), Av. Fernando Correa da 
Costa, 2367, 78060-900 Cuiabá, Mato Grosso, Brazil. Electronic address: 
drmasoares@gmail.com.

Toxic metal pollution in the Amazon is a serious problem that reduces the 
quality of water, soil, air, and consequently alters communities of fauna, 
flora, and microbiota, harming human health and well-being. Our aim was to 
determine the impact of toxic metals on the structure of the bacterial community 
associated with Diplopoda in the Amazon rainforest. Animals were kept in 
microcosms contaminated with cadmium (50 mg.kg-1), mercury (35 mg.kg-1) and no 
toxic metal (control). The intestinal and molting chamber microbiota were 
accessed by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods (16S 
metabarcoding). The cultivated strains were identified, and their functional 
traits evaluated: secretion of enzymes, growth at different pH, resistance to 
metals and antibiotics, and ability to reduce toxic effects of metals on plants. 
Our research described Brachyurodesmus albus, a new species of Diplopoda. We 
obtained 177 isolates distributed in 35 genera and 61 species of bacteria 
(Pseudomonadota, Bacillota, Bacteroidota and Actinomycetota) associated with the 
gut and molting chamber of B. albus. Metabarcoding data provided a more robust 
access to the bacterial community, resulting in 24 phyla, 561 genera and 6792 
ASVs. The presence of metal Cd and Hg alters the composition and abundance of 
bacteria associated with B. albus (PERMANOVA p < 0.05). The microhabitat (gut 
and molting chamber) harbours bacterial communities that differ in composition 
and abundance (PERMANOVA p < 0.05). The presence of Cd and Hg alters important 
metabolic pathways related to the prokaryotic defense system; antimicrobial 
resistance genes, endocytosis and secretion system, estimated by PICRUSt. 
Bacteria selected with high resistance to Cd and Hg buffer the toxic effect of 
metals on tomato seedlings. This work describes B. albus and concludes that its 
diverse bacterial microbiota is altered by soil contamination by toxic metals, 
as well as being an important repository for prospecting strains to be applied 
in bioremediation programs.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.176915
PMID: 39419211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.